This world is sinking.
It is being swallowed up by the rising seas.
Humanity has less and to live on, and the technological advances they have made are being lost.
I remember a time when they seemed content to peacefully accept their extinction.
It was then that I met him.
He said that if he couldn’t save the world, he wouldn’t be saved.
I asked him a question.
Does the world include me?
I will look over this planet.
I will watch it sink.
And I will watch them, as they fight back against their fate.
Here, in this infinite loneliness.
Time is a cruel thief to rob us of our former selves. We lose as much to life as we do to death…
I am surrounded by endless darkness.
Not a single ray of light illuminates my path as I craw I through the gloom, praying for an exit that may not even exist.
But as hard as I try, I cannot move.
My leg is crushed beneath a dreadful weight, completely trapped.
Searing agony radiates through my body.
Please, Mom, someone…Help!
My hands scrabble around in the dirt, reaching out for anyone, anything. But they find nothing.
It hurts…It hurts…!
Natsuki: Somebody, save me!
I awaken suddenly to the sight of my hand, stretched out toward the low ceiling of my room.
Grasping at nothing, I let my arm drop down by my side.
And then I feel it.
Natsuki: Nnngh!?
My body twists and contorts as an intense pain throbs in my right leg.
Natsuki: Hngh…Hahh,hahh…Ugh…
After a few torturous seconds, it disappears as if it was never there in the first place.
I lay limply back on the bed, trying to slow my breathing.
My body is coated in a clammy layer of sweat.
Natsuki: …I must have fallen asleep.
I raise my head, and look down at my leg.
Or at least, where it should be.
The very same right leg that just a moment ago was pulsing with agony is as non-existent as it has been for the past eight years.
And yet, it still hurts. The empty space where my flesh should be still torments me.
There are no nerves there to send signals to my brain, but my mind still will not accept the truth.
They call it “phantom pain.”
It’s started to flare up again lately.
Phantom pain isn’t affected by regular pain killers.
I mean, of course it isn’t. It’s all an illusion, pain emanating from nerves that don’t even exist.
A doctor would prescribe antidepressants, but their side-effects could be even worse than the pain. Not that a doctor would be able to get their hands on those these days.
I simply have to live in constant dread of the next attack.
The gentles sunlight leaking through the portholes stabs at my eyes. It must be morning.
Natsuki: …No point lying around here, I suppose.
I hear a sudden, satisfying crunch from somewhere across the room.
Woman’s Voice: You awake? Didn’t look like you were having a nice time in dreamland there.
I look over to find a young woman, chopping pieces off of an apple with a penknife.
Catherine: Damn, you’ve got a resting bitch face at the best of times, but it sure is bad when you’ve just woken up. You could make a kid cry if you looked at them like that.
Natsuki: …Really nice to hear that from a woman who sneaks into someone else’s room and steals their breakfast.
Lifting myself up from the sweat-streaked sheets, I sit on the edge of my bed and reach for my prosthetic leg.
Naturally, a prosthetic leg is supposed to be built to fit an individual’s body.
But this one wasn’t made specifically for me. It’s an old, second-hand model, not just ill-fitting, but on the verge of breaking too.
It’s better than nothing, though.
These days, it’s possible to get cybernetic legs that can be controlled by nerve signals, or even full cybernetic implants.
Unfortunately, those are far, far out of my price range right now.
I place my stump into the socket, and tighten the straps around it.
When I try moving the joint, it lets out an ominous creak.
I fiddle with its screws, and give it a little oil.
Newsreader: The weather out there this morning is looking bright and clear, with a mild south-westerly breeze…
The radio I’d switched on before I laid down is still blaring.
I got through the motions of keeping my decrepit old leg working while half-listening to the drone of the announcer’s voice.
Newsreader: …The rocket has been hailed by some as representing a bold new hope for humanity, but citizens have been raising concerns that…
Catherine: I hope they actually launch this one.
Natsuki: They will.
Catherine: Well, here’s hoping. If they’ve got the time to mess about launching fireworks, maybe they could actually help the people with their problems too, huh?
Natsuki: They’ve got the bigger picture in mind. If they don’t work to assure we’ve got a future, what’s the point in fixing whatever bullshit the common person’s got going on?
Natsuki: …Ugh, there’s no point trying to get philosophical with you, I know.
I push my foot down, getting a feel for the leg.
The joint’s moving a little more smoothly now.
Catherine: Nice weather we’ve got today. Perfect for diving. What to get started?
Natsuki: At least let me have breakfast first.
It’s only when I’ve finished my sentence that I remember that my apple’s already long gone.
Someone’s Voice: H-Hello?
Another female voice calls out, this time from off my ship.
Minamo: Natsu-kuuun?
Minamo: Hmm, maybe
Minamo: Hmm, maybe he’s asleep. I wish he’d put a doorbell on this thing.
Catherine: Hey.
Minamo: Oh,Natsu-ku-
Minamo: Wait, who are you!?
Catherine: That’s my line.
Minamo: Err, well… I’m Kamishiro Minamo, I’m a friend of Natsu-kun’s.
Catherine: Huh, that kid’s got friends?
Minamo: Ahem, so could I ask who you are?
Catherine: Me? Well, y’know. I guess I’m like his wife.
Minamo: Wife? His W-I-F-E wife!?
Natsuki: Don’t listen to her. She’s just your average apple-pinching intruder.
Minamo: Err… So who actually are you?
Catherine: I’m his business partner.
Natsuki: Why are you here, Minamo?
Minamo: I’ve come to take you to school, Natsu-kun.
Minamo: You haven’t turned up at all ever since you transferred here…
Before I can say anything, Catherine has already opened her big mouth.
Catherine: Unfortunately, my little partner here’s got a job to do, a job that’s going to make us both very, very rich. So you just run a long to school now, sweetie.
Minamo: Eep!
Minamo flinches and almost tears up as a slght glare is flashed her way.
Natsuki: If you’re not doing anything else, you could help us out. An extra pair of hands would be useful.
Minamo: I just said that I’m going to school, though?
Natsuki: What’s the point in that? School makes you dumb.
Minamo: Err… I thought it was supposed to make you smarter?
Minamo: Hey, wait! Natsu-kuuun!
The ship rumbles its way away from the pier, and stops a little distance from the shore.
Natsuki: This seems like the place.
Deep in the translucent waters, I can see the shadow of something man-made.
Minamo: Aww, man, I ended up coming along anyway. I should be at school…
Minamo grumbles to herself as she stares out at the endless expanse of blue.
I climb down from the deck, toward the other vessel the ship is towing.
I open the hatch on the large, egg-like craft bobbing up and down in the waves.
Natsuki: Minamo, when I close the hatch, disengage the clamps. You know how to do that, right?
Minamo: O-Of course I don’t!
Catherine: I’ll teach you. Come over here.
Minamo: Eep!
Natsuki: I’ll need you to operate the crane too. If you’ve got any questions, ask Catherine.
Minamo: I-Is this thing even seaworthy? It’s got rust all over it.
Natsuki: I’m not going to be diving too deep. A little bit of leakage isn’t anything to worry about.
Minamo: Seriously? Won’t it sink?
Natsuki: Right, here goes.
I duck down inside the sub, and close the hatch behind me.
I take my seat at the controls and pump the choke lever until hear the engine splutter into life.
I tap all of the gauges to check they’re working, and signal to Minamo out of the small window in the top the sub.
Natsuki: Okay, disengage the clamps.
Minamo: …
Minamo flaps her arms back at me with a troubled espression.
Natsuki: Sorry, I can’t hear a word you’re saying.
I can’t hear her though the glass, and her arm movements don’t communicate anything except possibly “frightened goose.”
Better signal to Catherine instead.
Grinning like a demon plunging a sinner into the depths of hell, she disengages the lock.
I feel the sub sway as it floats freely in the water.
I call out through the radio.
Natsuki: Okay, lower the crane.
Catherine: Roger.
I tug on the control stick and the sub’s manipulator arms grasp the crane’s hook. I attach it to the eyelet on top of the egg.
Natsuki: Venting the ballast tanks.
The sea around the sub ripples with bubbles as the tanks empty out their air and replace it with water.
The rotund little ship starts to gradually submerge as it grows heavy with ballast.
The color outside the window darkness from the baby blue of the sky to the deep aqua of the sea.
The submarine. Serpens Albus slowly sinks into the water, glistening in the morning sun.
The little ship slowly and silently drifts through the sea.
It sinks deeper and deeper.
Before long, the rusty joints of its hull start to creak under the pressure.
Natsuki: You’re already hurting at this depth? Hmm, this might be a problem after all.
Minamo’s doubts seem to be contagious.
The Serpens Albus is s pretty old ship. It’s supposed to be capable of going a few hundred meters down, but I can’t help but feel that if I tried going that deep now I’d end up the size of a basketball.
Thankfully, I’m not heading down anywhere that deep. It’ll be a couple of dozen meters at most.
The light outside grows dimmer, and soon all that I can see beyond the window is a dark navy.
I cruise through the lonely waters, toward the treasure I seek.
I came to this town because I had nothing left. I’d lost everything.
I lived here once as a child, left in the care of my grandmother.
But when I returned after eight years, the scenery was unrecognizable.
The beautiful coastal town I remembered was gone.
Natsuki: There is…
Sunken beneath the waves.
Buried here at the bottom of the ocean is a town that just a few years ago was teeming with people.
The sight of the buildings shimmering in the sunlight piercing the water is uncanny. It’s like time has stopped.
This town was not the only one to be enveloped by the sea.
When the waters around the world suddenly began to rise, entire cities were plunged into this limbo.
No one knows why. Scientists posited that it might be climate change, or some kind of movement in the earth’s crust, but no one can say for sure.
All we really know is that sea levels suddenly began to rise inexorably, swallowing up more and more land.
The mysterious phenomenon brought humanity to its knees, almost entirely destroying our civilization. They say we’ve entered the twilight of our species, and it’s hard to disagree.
The population had already started to drop before I was born, and by the time I became aware of the world, it was already doomed.
Even though I lived through the terror of the great sea rise, I don’t really have any conception of the supposed “time of the party” that adults talk about.
Natsuki: They’re always droning on about the past and other bullshit. But this is the only world I’ve ever known.
Something inside me makes me want to blame the state of this planet on them.
As I sit there lost in my thoughts, a transmission comes through my radio.
Catherine: How’s it going, kid?
Natsuki: Great. I’ll be arriving at the target soon.
…
After a moment’s lag, the reply comes.
Catherine: Nice. Let’s get what we need, and then I can get the hell out of this hole.
The lag’s a necessary annoyance, given that radio waves don’t pass through water too easily. All of our communications are converted into high-frequency sound waves, which travel slower.
Natsuki: If you want to get out of here so much, why not find some other job? You don’t want to die a debt collector, do you?
Catherine: When I’m done with this case, I’ll consider it.
Just as I’m about to get back to work, another voice comes over the radio.
Minamo: Natsu-kun!
Natsuki: What’s wrong? You sound like you’re about to burst into tears.
Minamo: Are you okay? Is this ship still all right? You’re not sinking are you?
Natsuki: It’s fine. Little bit creaky, but nothing worth worrying about.
Natsuki: It looks pretty nice down here. I should show you sometime.
This kind of scenery could takes someone’s breath away, that’s for sure.
Minamo: Come back as quick as you can, okay?
Natsuki: I’m telling you, it’s fine. This thing might be old, but that means it’s tough and simple too.
Minamo: That’s not what I mean. We’ll be late for school!
Oh, yeah, that.
Minamo: If my mom finds out I’m skipping school, she’d be furious.
I sigh.
Natsuki: You really are a good girl, aren’t you?
Minamo: H-Huh!? D-Don’t start complimenting me all of a sudden…
Giggling with a strangely elated tone, she ends the transmission.
Natsuki: What the hell was that…?
Gah, that completely broke my concentration.
My grandmother was an ocean geologist. She left me a lot in her will.
Although her home was flooded, her boat and this submarine, that she used for field work, weren’t taken by the waters.
She was obsessed with her research, and despised children.
Before she died, she poured a significant a mount of her saving into something that she locked up in her storehouse.
And that’s what I’m here to salvage.
Natsuki: There it is-her house.
For a short time, I suppose it was mine too.
I grasp the controls, and steer the sub into the back garden.
There, just as I remember, is the storehouse. It’s quite big, almost out of keeping with the size of the actual house.
My grandmother never let me get close to it. Perhaps she was keeping materials related to her research in there.
Now, however, it’s the only place I’m interested in. Getting in might be difficult, though-the storehouse’s heavy iron doors look to be locked tight.
Natsuki: We’re going to have to break the doors down. When I give you the signal, wind in the winch.
Catherine: Roger.
I reach the manipulator arm up to undo the crane’s hook, and attach it to the bar holding the two doors solidly closed.
Natsuki: Okey, pull!
The cable winds back swiftly and snaps taut, but the doors don’t move an rich.
Natsuki: Huh. No dice.
Just as I’m about to give the signa l to stop, a clang and the sound of creaking metal echo through the water. The door collapses, sending up a billowing cloud of sediment.
The resulting opening is large enough for the Serpens Albus to fit straight through.
Natsuki: Well, looks like that’ll do.
If I hadn’t been able to get these doors open, I would have had to break through the roof, and that could have damaged whatever’s inside.
Natsuki: It’s been ten years… Finally time to see what’s in here.
I orient the sub towards the door, and slowly start to push forward.
The inside of the storehouse is in far better condition than the outside.
The walls are lined with bookshelves full of research materials, and measurement buoys and data collection equipment are scattered all over the floor.
As a kid, this place would have made the perfect playground. I can picture my grandmother thinking about all the fun children could get up to in here, and scowling as she locked the doors.
Natsuki: Probably a wise decision, to be fair.
I shine the subs lights across the room, searching out my target.
The fact that I don’t actually know what I’m looking for makes that easier said than done, however. It’s supposed to be something valuable, but to my untrained eyes, all of the devices in here look like they cost a pretty penny.
Crabs and fish skitter around the assorted detritus, fleeing from the torch beams.
Natsuki: …Hmm?
I notice an odd object as I sweep the lights around.
Natsuki: What’s that?
It’s a large, oblong box. Down here in the murky gloom, it almost looks a sunken sarcophagus.
Slowing down my engine so that my screw drives don’t kick up too much sediment, I cautiously approach.
…
It really does seem to be some kind of casket.
It’s the perfect size for a single person.
Part of the surface seems to be glass. I peer through the gloom…
Natsuki: A mannequin? No… A girl?
Inside the capsule is a young girl, as delicate and fragile-looking as an antique doll.
Strangely, I don’t feel even an inkling of fear or discomfort.
Maybe it’s because this seems so unreal. Or perhaps it’s just how adorable she looks.
Whatever the case, I have no idea what she really is.
There’s only one thing I’m sure about-this has to be what I’m here for.
Natsuki: What even is this? It looks like it has electricity, but that’s all can really tell from looking at it…
I’m going to have to raise the whole thing.
I’m not going to be able to manage that with just the manipulator arm. I’ll have to rely on the crane.
I steer the sub back out of the building, and pull the wire out from the remains of the door.
Dragging it along behind me, I make my way back to the casket.
As I approach it, my hand slips from the control stick, and the sub nudges the case.
It’s not a hard hit, but for a moment a chill runs down my spine.
Natsuki: …I haven’t broken it, have I?
It doesn’t seem like the glass is cracked…
But the eyes of the girl in the casket have opened.
Our gaze meets through the glass.
Girl: …
Natsuki: She’s alive…
I know my voice can’t be reaching her, but she tilts her head slightly as if in response.
Suddenly, like a bolt of lightning, a name pops into my mind.
I’d heard it once in the hospital, at my grandmother’s bedside…
Natsuki: ATRI…?
The girl watches the movement of my lips carefully.
Girl: …
And she smiles.
She really is alive…
Natsuki: (But… What is she?)
As I sit wondering what to do next, the girl starts to move. She begins to tap away at some panels inside her capsule.
The glass of the case opens.
A great cloud of bubbles billows out as the casket is inundated with water.
Natsuki: What are you doing!?
Girl: …
It seems like she didn’t realize that she was underwater.
As much as she panics and tries to hammer the controls, there’s no closing the glass now.
I’ve got to save her-
At that moment, a shadow looms over me.
The sudden rush of air from the casket buffets the ceiling of the building, the already water-damaged framework seemingly rattled by my destruction of the doors.
The walls start to cave in, and the concrete ceiling cracks.
Natsuki: No!
I instinctively push the control stick forward.
The Serpens Albus moans in agony as steel beams collapse on top of it.
Thankfully, I’ve managed to cover the girl from harm.
But we’re not out of the woods yet.
Natsuki: Hngh, this is bad… Am I trapped!?
I try to put my engine into reverse, but the sub is pinned down under the ceiling.
My mind is instantly filled with intense, gruesome memories…
Natsuki: (I’m buried alive, just like before…)
My body is quickly coated in an ice-cold sweat, and pain throbs through the spot where my leg should be.
Natsuki: Nnngh… Hahh, hahh… Hahh…
As the weight above me seems to bear down on my very soul, my eyes meet the girl’s.
Girl: …
She stares at me with a strange look, as if she doesn’t realize the danger that she’s in.
Natsuki: I’ve got… I’ve got to save her…
Grasping the controls, I try to find the hook of the crane to affix it to the sub, but it’s now here to be found.
Natsuki: …Did it come off in the impact?
I try to peer around the floor, but my manipulator arms couldn’t reach down there even if I did see it, and the sub can’t move an inch.
Natsuki: What do I do? Nnngh!
Pain and panic surges through my brain, and I feel my consciousness grow distant.
Just as I’m about to black out, I see the girl jump from the casket. She reaches down, and lifts up a glimmering silver object-the hook.
Girl: …?
Natsuki: Please… Give that to me…
She tilts her head to the side and stares. She places the hook in the fingers of my manipulator.
I quickly attach it to the sub’s frame.
Natsuki: Hey… Can you hear me up there!?
Catherine: Wassup?
Natsuki: Hahh, hahh… Wind in the winch! Quick!
Catherine: What was that? Speak up, Kid.
Minamo: What’s going on? Is something wrong, Natsu-kun?
Natsuki: Wind in the winch! Now!
Catherine: Wait a second, if we do that-
If they don’t do it this instant, I’m going to end up completely crushed.
Minamo: O-Okay! Oof!
Catherine: What are you doing, you stupid girl!?
I grab the girl from the casket in the manipulator arm.
Girl: …
She stare impassively at me through the window, unfazed by the metal gripper around her waist.
Natsuki: (Isn’t she scared?)
If anything, she looks particular relaxed.
Why isn’t she struggling for breath by now?
I’m thrown from my seat from the sudden acceleration as the winch pulls taut, the sub creaking painfully as the ceiling pinning it down scrapes against it.
Catherine: Phew… I thought we were going to capsize. Jeez, this girl…
Minamo: Ah, there he is!
Catherine: Huh. Sure looks like he’s in a hurry.
Catherine: That must mean we’ve hit the jackpot!
When the hull breaks the water, I fling open the hatch.
Crawling out, I heard toward the ship’s fore.
Minamo: What are you doing, Natsu-kun! That’s dangerous!
Catherine: Hey, you’re gonna fall in! You can’t swim with that leg, can you?
Natsuki: If I don’t hurry, the girl’s going to die!
Minamo: What girl?
Minamo: suddenly notices the body held between the manipulator’s claws.
Minamo: Who is that!?
The girl is floating face-down, unmoving, her body limp.
I craw I towards her, and thrust out my hand.
Natsuki: Grab hold! Quickly!
She doesn’t move. Maybe she’s unconscious…
I push myself off of the sub’s hull, trying to make my way over to her.
But as my foot drives against the rusty metal, I feel it shudder beneath me.
Natsuki: What!?
My leg catches against the framework-my prosthetic leg, which tears away from my body.
I fall into the water, and sink beneath the surface. Stunned, I gaze up at the soft morning light glimmering through the azure.
Natsuki: (It’s beautiful…)
Perhaps it’s because I instantly realize the hopelessness of my plight, but I’m surprising calm.
My clothes are heavy with water. My one leg doesn’t even attempt to keep me afloat.
Opening myself to the soft embrace of the cool, radiant light, I let myself be taken by the depths.
Natsuki: (So this is how I die… At least I’m going to die somewhere beautiful.)
I’d rather my last breath fill my lungs with water than darkness.
As I gaze in wonder at the shimmering light, like a million jewels enveloping my body, a shadow starts to form within them.
It grows and grows, blocking all that beauty from my view.
Natsuki: (Stop it… Don’t take the light away… The darkness scares me…!)
Natsuki: (Mmmph!?)
The shadow bears down on me, and I feel a strange sensation against my lips.
I see clearly now. The shadow is the girl.
Natsuki: (What is she doing…?)
She’s sinking with me, pushing air into my mouth from her own.
Girl: (…)
As I feel her gift of oxygen fill my lungs, a terrible thought begins to float through my mind.
Natsuki: (I don’t want to die…)
I came to this town because I had lost everything.
I thought I had no reason to live any more.
And yet, I do not want to die.
What a selfish, greedy creature a human can be, to want to live on without reason.
But now, there’s no way back.
Natsuki: (I’m sorry. I dragged you into this…)
If she hadn’t tried to save me, she could have lived on.
But even with her breath sustaining me, my one remaining leg can do nothing to keep us from falling the darkness.
Girl: (…)
A plume of bubbles erupts from her mouth as she tried to say something.
Girl: (…!)
Not wishing to waste more air, she quickly presses her mouth back to mine, and points upward.
Natsuki: (Huh…?)
Through the shining water comes a shape.
A thin, long line, connecting us to the light.
A rope.
I grasp hold of it, and wrap my other arm around the girl.
Natsuki: Hahh, hahh…
I collapse on the ship’s deck, basking in the sheer joy of breathing freely once more.
Minamo: Ahh, that was so scary! I thought you were going to die, Natsu-kun!
Natsuki: Hahh, hahh… Thanks for the help, Minamo.
Minamo: No…*sniffle*, that wasn’t me.
Catherine: Couldn’t let my meal ticket get away, now could I?
She holds up the rope with a grin.
I don’t have the energy to snap at her like I normally would. For once, I’m grateful for her debt collector instincts.
Catherine: So, I suppose I should ask… Who’s the girl?
She’s sitting next to me, soaking wet, seeming unfazed.
She’s still holding the sleeve of my shirt in her hand.
Her grip is firm, as if she’s trying to stop me jumping into the sea again.
Girl: …
Natsuki: …Thanking you.
Girl: There is no need to thank me. I was merely carrying out my innate duty.
Natsuki: (What a strange phrasing…)
Minamo: Where did she come from? She wasn’t with you when you dived, was she?
Natsuki: I found her down there. She was sleeping in my grandmother’s storehouse.
Minamo: What? Sleeping?
Natsuki: I think she might be a robot.
Girl: That is s common colloquial term for the category of equipment I belong to. However, it is imprecise.
She’s not human…
She’s just a robot in the shape of a human.
Catherine: She must be a Humanoid! Your grandmother was keeping a thing like this down there all this time?
Humanoids: robots intended to resemble humans as much as possible.
Also marketed as ”Androids” or ”Gynoids” depending on the manufacturer.
Humanoids were produced en masse when humanity’s technological progress was at its peak, and their construction was so advanced that they were indistinguishable from humans.
They don’t need to breathe, but their vocal systems are intended to replicate the human voicebox. Naturally, that means they need a pair of lungs, or at least something resembling them, to hold air.
I own my life to that particular design quirk.
Minamo: She’s a robot? Wow, I couldn’t tell at all!
Robot Girl: Of course not. I am an extremely high-performance model.
Catherine: Phew, we really have struck the jackpot! This thing will sell for a pretty penny.♪
Minamo: What!? You’re going to sell her?
Catherine: Of course. Selling it’s the reason we salvaged it.
Catherine: Humanoids are pretty thin on the ground these days. If we sell it, he’ll be able to pay off Professor Yachigusa’s debts, and then some.
Minamo: But, um, isn’t that kind of cruel? It’s like, umm…
Minamo looks back and forth between Catherine and the robot girl.
Somehow I don’t think she’d have the same kind of reaction if she was looking at any other piece of industrial machinery.
But to the untrained eye, this girl looks just like a human being.
Robot Girl: Yes. That is not possible.
Minamo: See, she thinks so tool!
Robot Girl: I am the private property of my master. It is against the law to sell me without permission.
Catherine: Your master? Ah, Professor Yachigusa…
Natsuki: Your master died a month ago.
Robot Girl: Oh.
Natsuki: This town sunk into the rising seas three years ago. You’ve been asleep down there for all that time.
The robot counts to there on her fingers.
A look of realization dawns on her face.
Robot Girl: Ohhh. So my master is dead. I see. R.I.P.
Minamo: She, err, doesn’t seem very upset.
Catherine: Well, it’s a robot. Saying that, even this level of emotion marks it out as a pretty expressive model.
Catherine: Don’t you worry, though, your new master’s right here! This kid here got all of the professor’s stuff her will.
Robot Girl: …
The robot girl turns to me, and peers closely at my face.
Robot Girl: I see. So you’re…
Natsuki: Err, yeah, I suppose I’m your master now.
Robot Girl: For some reason, I felt like that was the case from the very first time I saw you, under the water. I should have known.
She speaks with a strange air of conviction.
She tugs on my sleeve again.
Natsuki: (She looks like a kid who’s just found her dad…)
I wonder if a sufficiently advance robot without a master experience the same fears a lost child would…
Robot Girl: What should I call you? I will adjust my speech protocols accordingly.
Robot Girl: Popular options include ‘master’, ‘sir’, ‘big bro’, ‘daddy’-
Natsuki: Just call me Natsuki.
I abruptly cut her off, before she says something I really don’t want to have in my head.
Natsuki: Ikaruga Natsuki. That’s my name.
Robot Girl: Natsuki.
Natsuki: And what do I call you?
Robot: Girl: Would you like to confirm my serial number?
She reaches behind her head to lift up her hair. Her serial number must be on the back of her neck.
Natsuki: No, I’m asking if you have a name.
I wouldn’t be surprised if that old bag never gave her one.
Robot Girl: My name is ‘ATRI’.
ATRI: My master gave me it.
Natsuki: ATRI… That’s a nice name.
The words slip out of my mouth without thinking.
ATRI: I know, right? Being given a human name is proof of being recognized as a living being.
ATRI: It’s a marker of status.♪
Robot think of names in that way? I’d never considered that before.
ATRI: Ah, Natsuki is a pretty nice name too, I suppose.
Natsuki: …Are you patronizing me?
ATRI: Error. I do not understand the word ‘patronizing’.
She looks up at me with a blank expression.
It’s probably my imagination, but there seems to be a glint of mischief in her young, delicate eyes. Then again, maybe it’s just a reflection of the midday sun…
I think back to the lights that I saw underwater.
After staring at me for a while, ATRI suddenly smiles.
It’s a smiles so soft and gentle that I have the sudden wish to capture this moment in amber for eternity.
ATRI: Take good care of me, Natsuki-san.
I remember the first thing my grandmother said to me when I walked into her hospital room, propped up by a walking stick, dragging my ill-fitting prosthetic leg.
Nonko: You look a mess…
That’s all.
Natsuki: If I hadn’t sold my cybernetic leg, I wouldn’t have been able to pay my tuition fees.
Nonko: And yet, you’ve ended up crawling back here anyway. Who does that remind me of? Well, I guess it’s my fault, in the end…
I didn’t expect those words to hit me hard, but they did.
To hear this selfish woman say that something was her fault came straight out of the blue.
Nonko: I’m glad you’ve returned, though. I want you to carry on my research, Natsuki.
Nonko: I lost a lot when the seas rose, but my work isn’t finished yet.
Nonko: I want you to pull up ATRI. If you can take her where she needs to go, our plan can start again…
Natsuki: ATRI…
Nonko: My clumsy, useless housekeeper.
I was surprised to hear someone as cantankerous as her would employ a maid.
Natsuki: I don’t really know what you want me to do, but I can tell it’s not something I can manage. I am a mess, after all.
Nonko: Pssh, you’re going to let a little thing like losing your leg beat you? You’re not dead yet, boy. Don’t you want to save the world?
Nonko: That island is still out there somewhere on the ocean. You have to find it, Natsuki…
When we reach the pier, Minamo hurriedly hops off the boat.
Minamo: Gah, I’m really, really curious about her, but I’ve got to get to school!
Minamo: Make sure you come to school tomorrow too, Natsuki-kun. There’s something I want to talk to you about.
She runs off without waiting for a reply.
Minamo: Dammit, I’m so late!
ATRI: School…
Catherine: Right, we should get going too.
Natsuki: Where to?
Catherine: Town. We’ve gotta sell this thing, of course.
Catherine: Dunno where yet, but I want to get a few quotes at least.
She hops down from the ship too.
I’m about to jump down myself, when I feel ATRI staring up at me with a strange expression. She’s been cling to my sleeve this whole time.
ATRI: Do you need some help?
Natsuki: Nope, I’ve got this.
I jump down from the swaying deck.
I brace myself with my walking stick as I land, wobbling.
Easy. I could manage that in my sleep.
ATRI follows after me, hurried trotting up to me and grabbing onto my sleeve again.
Natsuki: Let’s go.
ATRI: Affirmative.
We travel all the way into the center of town.
Long ago, the shopping street here was extremely lively.
As times changed it became nearly abandoned, but the economic shock caused by the great sea rise led to it becoming a thriving hub of trade once again.
Now, it’s a chaotic, bustling place, a black market full of stalls and vendors.
Catherine: Ahh, don’t you just love it here? Dirty, grimy, and filled with the absolute scum of the world. The perfect place for someone like me to blend in.
Despite her assertion, this is still only a small town. So outsiders stick out like a sore thumb, Catherine and I included.
Thanks to my hobbling gait, I can usually feel the stares on me wherever I go.
There’s something different today, though. For once, all of the eyes are on the person walking behind me.
Her footsteps, light and pottering, have no trouble keeping up with my slow walk.
The sound of bare feet on concrete is noticeably strange.
Catherine: …Hey, can’t you do something about that noise?
Catherine turns with a sigh and a frown.
ATRI merely stares, still holding on to the hem of my sleeve.
I can’t recall if her feet where always bare, or if she just lost her shoes when we were underwater. I assume, since she’s wearing clothes otherwise, it’s the latter.
Natsuki: What am I supposed to do? I don’t exactly have a collection of small girls’ shoes I can just pull out my ass.
Catherine: Well, it’s gonna make a bad impression. You look like a slave trader or something.
Natsuki: You’re not helping that, you know.
Catherine looks completely out of place here in this country backwater.
I’m pretty sure “Catherine” isn’t even her real name. She’s very obviously completely Japanese, born and bred.
Even though I’ve been working with her, I don’t really know anything about her.
ATRI: May I ask a question? What is this place?
ATRI looks around the stalls.
Natsuki: You must know this place, right? You were my grandmother’s maid.
ATRI: I have no records of this place in my memory.
Natsuki: I suppose that’s understandable. All of the flatland around here was inundated when the waters rose, separating it from the mainland, so it must have changed a lot.
Once a coastal I town, now this is an island.
Suddenly being separated from civilization has caused a lot of problems. Transport, electricity and communications on the island have been disconnected.
Natsuki: This place wasn’t anywhere near as busy when I lived here. It used to be a ghost town, and so peaceful…
The road we took to get here has completely changed too.
It’s like the rising waters have washed away the old town in the same way even precious memories can be lost in a morass of fresh, pointless ones.
Natsuki: Don’t you feel hurt?
Some models of Humanoids are equipped with pain receptors, in order to make them as human-like as possible.
ATRI: I’m fine. I’m high-performance model, after all.
She shows me the bottom of her feet with a triumphant smile.
Her dress kicks up, and I glimpse her bare legs beneath it.
I know that they’re not made of real skin, that they’re not “real” legs, but their slim, gently curved silhouette looks so perfectly human.
I can’t take my eyes off of them.
ATRI: Is something wrong?
Natsuki: …It’s nothing.
I trudge my way through the crowds, propping myself up on my walking stick as I shuffle my creaking leg forward.
The store Catherine is aiming for is way off in the distance.
Natsuki: Hey, can we take a detour? There’s a place want to stop by.
Catherine: Can’t it wait?
Natsuki: I’ll only be a minute.
I turn off of the main road and onto a backstreet.
I stop in front of one particular stall.
Natsuki: So, which do you want?
ATRI: Hm?
ATRI tilts her head quizzically, still clenching my sleeve in her delicate fingers.
It’s a shoe store.
Natsuki: Take your pick. Only from the ones on this shelf, though.
A bunch of particularly cheap children’s shoes are all lined up.
They’re all can afford with how little money I have, so it’s lucky that they’re the perfect size.
ATRI: You’re going to buy these for me?
Natsuki: Yep.
Catherine: Ah, I get you. If it’s got dirty feet, people are gonna try and haggle the price down for it. Good thinking.
ATRI: Hmm…
ATRI looks over the shoes, humming as she does.
Catherine: Hurry up. Shoes are shoes. Just grab a pair.
ATRI: Please wait. There are several criteria for me consider, and I can’t choose so quickly.
ATRI: This pair is more robust, but these are the most aesthetically pleasing. And when you bring cost-performance into account…
Catherine: Tch, you’re an annoying little machine. Can’t you pick for her?
Natsuki: Err…
Taken by surprise, I reach out and pick up the first pair I see.
Natsuki: I think these would suit you best.
It’s a pair of brown loafers. Thankfully, cheap ones.
After I pay, the stall owner politely wipes ATRI’s feet, and she puts then on.
ATRI: Ohhh, they’re the perfect size.
Catherine: Great. Now, let’s go.
ATRI: Hehehe!♪
ATRI walks alongside me, deliberately kicking her feet up high with each step.
She seems pretty happy with her bottom-of-the-barrel footwear.
Natsuki: You really like those shoes that much?
Not that she seemed to mind being barefoot.
ATRI: I do! After all, you were the one that gave them to me!
Somehow, seeing her this happy about them makes me particular uncomfortable.
ATRI: Is it wrong for me to be happy?
Natsuki: No, it’s fine.
ATRI: I knew it. Good!
She exhales with a smile, oddly relieved.
Natsuki: (Is there some kind of rule about robot workers not being allowed to be happy, or something?)
I studied robotics at The Academy, but I don’t know much about the programming of models as old as ATRI.
We soon reach the store Catherine was aiming for.
It’s a junk shop, with all manner of electronics and machinery lying around in ugly heaps.
As I try to enter, I feel a tug at my sleeve.
I turn around. ATRI has stopped walking.
Natsuki: What’s up?
ATRI: Are you going to sell me?
Natsuki: Yep.
ATRI: Umm… I have a request.
ATRI: Could you wait for a little while?
I’m taken aback.
It’s unusual for a robot to make a request of a human.
There must be some particular reason for her to ask something like that.
Natsuki: How long is ‘a little while’ ?
ATRI: Hmm… Forty-five days. After that, I don’t mind.
Natsuki: Why do you want us to wait?
ATRI: umm…
Catherine: Not a chancel! Do you really think we’re just going to let you hang around for that long?
Before ATRI can respond, Catherine butts in.
Catherine: Come on, get in here!
She pulls ATRI by the hand into the store.
I follow along behind, brow furrowed.
The owner is visibly surprised to see ATRI.
Junk Shop Owner: Is that a Humanoid? I didn’t know there were any of those still running.
Catherine: This one’s a real doozy, too. A proper high-performance one, the kind that you can hardly even find in the big cities these days.
The owner eyes Catherine suspiciously.
Junk Shop Owner: You’re that new gal around here, aren’t ya?
Junk Shop Owner: Don’t wanna be rude, but you should get outta this town. This is a quite place, and wo don’t need your kind around here.
Catherine: Don’t you worry, as soon as I’m finished with my business, I’m out. So, how much?
Junk Shop Owner: What, you’re gonna sell this little one?
He glances ATRI up and down.
ATRI: …
Junk Shop Owner: There ain’t no way I’m gonna be able to buy her.
Catherine: Why not?
Junk Shop Owner: You think I’ve got that much cash lyin’ around? I’ve not even got anyone around here to sell her to. Is ’pose l could find you someone who’d be willin’ to take her off your hands, though.
Junk Shop Owner: Give us a look at your serial number, lass.
ATRI: …
She looks over at me as if requesting permission.
I nod, and she lifts up her hair.
There, on the nape of her neck, is the number.
The owner fetches a tattered, yellowing file from his desk, and starts flicking through the pages.
Junk Shop Owner: Hmm… A fourth generation Yamaseki Factories unit…
Junk Shop Owner: This model got recalled after they found a buncha bugs.
Natsuki: So you’re saying she’s not worth anything?
Catherine: That can’t be right! She’s a working, moving humanoid! Even one with a couple of little bugs here and there should be worth something!
She probably right. Most of the robot factories were destroyed by the sea rises, which lead to most companies going bankrupt and a lot of industry secrets being lost.
Their scarcity means ATRI could fetch dozens of times what my grandmother paid for her.
Junk Shop Owner: You got that right…
He starts tapping away at a calculator.
I watch his fingers dance. Tension growing in my chest.
My ship wasn’t the only thing I inherited from my grandmother. With it came a colossal debt.
Even if I worked constantly for years and years, I’d struggle to pay it off.
I found out about it when Catherine turned up at my door just after she died.
Catherine: So, this is the repossession order.
Natsuki: Yeah, and? It’s not like I can just go ‘here, take more money than I have in the world’ and wave you off.
She responds to my exasperation with a cool stare.
Catherine: Yeah, I know that. I didn’t expect you to just hand it over right away.
Catherine: I’m not leaving this town empty-handed, though. I’m a pro, you-know.
She leans in slightly toward me, as if to emphasize her breasts.
Catherine: Let’s work together. I’ve got a very, very interesting proposal for you.
Catherine: I want to salvage Professor Yachigusa’s belongings. I’ve heard that there’s something very valuable in the ruins of her storehouse, at the bottom of the ocean.
Catherine: We’ll raise that up, and split whatever profit we make selling it. Your debt will vanish, just like that, and I’ll make a little on the side too.
Catherine: How, about it, kid?
And so, the mysterious “Catherine” and I started working together.
I don’t know how Catherine knew there was something in the storehouse, but she came to me with a plan to use my grandmother’s submarine to salvage it.
It was, in a very real way, like a drowning man finding a lifeboat.
I have hardly any money at the best of times, and when I do, I’ve better things to spend it on than some old bag’s debts.
Like getting back the things I’ve lost…
Junk Shop Owner: Where did ya find the lass, if ya don’t mind me askin’?
The owner peers peer over at me suspiciously.
That’s understandable, I suppose. Two strangers turn up out of nowhere, with a Humanoid in tow, looking to sell? It’s natural to think they might have procured it through… atypical means.
Natsuki: She was in my grandmother’s storehouse. We salvaged her from the bottom of the ocean.
Junk Shop Owner: Is that true?
ATRI: Yes, absolutely. Natsuki-san pulled me up from the ocean just this morning.
Junk Shop Owner: Huh, gotcha. That’s gotta be nice for ya, right? Musta been mighty cold down there.
ATRI: I was asleep, so I don’t remember.
ATRI: So, do you think you’ll be able to sell me for a high price?
Junk Shop Owner: Hmm… Even though you’re a defective model, they should get about this much for ya.
He holds the calculator out toward us.
I can hardly parse the number on it. All can tell is that it would pay off my grandmother’s debts with plenty left over for me.
Catherine: Aww yeah! I’ve hit the jackpot, baby!
She victoriously thrusts her fists into the air.
All I can do is stand there, speech less.
ATRI: I see. A number befitting of a high-performance model like me. Very satisfying.
Even though we’re discussing selling her, she looks distinctly smug.
Natsuki: (She doesn’t mind being sold off? I suppose she is a robot…)
Junk Shop Owner: I’m sure l can find ya someone to buy her. I’ll be takin’, say, five percent for myself, natch.
Catherine: Tch… Well, I can live with that. How long do you think it’ll take?
Junk Shop Owner: I’m gonna have to go out to the big city for a deal like this… Gimme a month or so.
Catherine: I don’t want to be waiting around forever. You’ll try to find someone quick, right?
Junk Shop Owner: Of course! Ya ain’t the only one who’d appreciate a little cheddar right now.
Junk Shop Owner: So, which one of these two is your master?
ATRI: It’s Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: …
Junk Shop Owner: Ah, gotcha.
Junk Shop Owner: It’s you, then? Silly question, I know a Humanoid’s not gonna get their master wrong, heh.
Natsuki: Yeah, it’s me…
Not that it really feels that way, since we’ve only just met.
Junk Shop Owner: You’re gonna have to be with her when I sell her, right? Can’t sell a Humanoid without their master’s permission.
Natsuki: Understood.
Catherine: I’ll come along too. I don’t want you two running off with my hard-earned cash.
Catherine’s eyes are still sparkling.
Junk Shop Owner: Couldn’t help but notice, but that leg of yours is pretty retro, innit?
He nods downward.
He’s right. My leg’s so old and beat-up it could be something I found on one of these junk heaps on sale here.
Natsuki: Yeah, I know.
Junk Shop Owner: Lotta fancy cybernetics going cheap on the market these days. When ya get ya cash, give me a bell and I’ll get ya one, yeah?
He grins as he holds out a catalogue of expensive-looking cybernetic limbs.
Back in more prosperous times, even people with fully-able bodies would get cybernetic implants to improve their strength or make certain jobs easier.
It’s still pretty common among the rich nowadays.
The catalogue seems to be full of implants aimed at that market.
Natsuki: …I’ll think about it.
I mutter noncommittally, and I leave the store.
Catherine: Phew, let’s go and grab something to eat. I’ve had nothing all day but an apple.
My breakfast, you mean.
I’m even hungrier than her as a result.
Natsuki: Well, that worked out well for you, didn’t it?
ATRI: Huh?
Natsuki: He said it’d take at least a month.
Just like ATRI wanted, the sale’s going to be put off for quite some time.
ATRI: Oh yes, thank you.
Natsuki: But why did you want me to wait?
It’s almost unheard of for a robot to make demands or talk back to a human. They have to have a particularly pressing reason to do so.
ATRI: Before I fell asleep, my master gave an order. I would like to fulfill it before I am sold.
Natsuki: An order?
Robots have always been programmed to obey three laws.
One: A robot may not injure a human being or, though inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.
Two: A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.
Three: A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Laws.
For most Humanoids, their entire reason for existence is simply to obey those three laws.
ATRI: Would you like a better leg?
Natsuki: I sure would.
ATRI: In that case, for as long as we’re together, I’ll be your leg!
ATRI: It’s the least I can do. You gave me these lovely shoes, after all.♪
She looks proudly down at her feet.
ATRI: I’m sure I’ll make a much better leg than that one you’re using at the moment.
Natsuki: …I’ll pass, thanks.
ATRI: Why!? I’m much more high-performance than that thing!
Natsuki: I’m saying I don’t need you! I’m fine by myself!
Without realizing it, I start to raise my voice.
A real, human girl would probably cower in feat after being shouted at like that, but ATRI just looks confused, unsure of how to react.
Catherine: Snapping at a robot? Jeez, kid…
Natsuki: …Sorry.
Catherine: Right, I think it’d be best if I take care of this thing until the junk guy finds us a buyer. Come on, Let’s go.
Catherine grabs hold of ATRI’s hand.
ATRI: Umm, err…
ATRI looks over at me with a pleading gaze.
OPTION
Take care of ATRI.                          Let ATRI go.
Natsuki: Hang on a second. I’ll take care of    I can’t exactly have some girl taking up my
her.                                      space, can I? She’ll have to go with
ATRI: Natsuki-san…                        Catherine.
Catherine: What? Don’t be stupid. How do I
know you’re not just going to run off with    ATRI: …
my big payday?
Natsuki: How do I know that you won’t?      She stares at me. Her soulless eyes somehow
Catherine: Why would I ? I couldn’t sell her   seem to carry the slightest glint of
without her master there. The situation’s     loneliness.
completely different.
Natsuki: Go on, ATRI. Go with Catherine.
She is, regrettably, right.                    ATRI: …Understood.
I’ve got no reason to oppose her taking ATRI,  Natsuki: I’ll leave her with you.
I suppose.                                Catherine: Gotcha.
If anything, it’ll be a weight off of my
shoulders.
Natsuki: ATRI, go with Catherine.
ATRI: …Understood.
She finally lets go of my sleeve.
Catherine: I’ll call you when the sale’s arranged. Phew, I’m starving. Hmm, what should I have for dinner?
A satisfied Catherine trots off with ATRI trudging after her.
ATRI: …
She looks back at me with a melancholic gaze, but says nothing.
Robots are made to obey, after all. Especially if it’s an order from their master.
Natsuki: Don’t give me that look. What else can I do?
Watching them walk off, I start to hobble my own way down the road.
The skies grow dark as I sit boring a hole into the wall with my eyes.
Soft classical music lilts through the room from the radio.
The sound, however, is interrupted constantly by static.
The ship’s lights are flickering unsettlingly too.
The town itself has no electricity. The only power I have is the wind turbine. It’s small and barely able to keep the lights and the radio on, but it’s enough.
But on a still, windless night like this, I’m constantly plunged into darkness.
Natsuki: …
I can feel the night approaching.
A creeping dread like tendrils winding around my legs…
Natsuki: I suppose I’ll try to get some sleep.
I should get into bed while there’s still some light left.
But try as I might, sleep will not come. My stomach is so empty that the pangs of hunger rack my entire body.
Natsuki: I’ll be able to afford a new leg soon…
If I can just manage that, I can start to rebuild my life too.
…And I’m going to sell that girl to do that?
Salvage my grandmother’s inheritance, and sell it. That was the deal. That’s all.
Natsuki: Why should I feel guilty about something like that?
She might look like a human girl, but she’s just a robot.
She was even proud about fetching such a high price. This is fine, right?
ATRI: In that case, for as long as we’re together, I’ll be your leg!
ATRI: It’s the least I can do. You gave me these lovely shoes, after all.♪
Natsuki: Dammit…
I get out of bed, and walk haltingly out onto the deck.
What am I even doing?
Even if I leave the ship, I don’t know where to go.
I never felt the need to ask Catherine where she’s living.
Natsuki: This town isn’t exactly huge. There’s not many places for outsiders to stay, so if I look around…
Yeah, and then what?
I take ATRI back with me, assuage my guilt a little, and…?
Sell her in forty-five days? Really?
Natsuki: …
A wave swells up over the grasses that have become the coastline here, and washes over the tarmac.
This used to be a main road climbing a hill, looking down on the beaches far below.
Now, at high tide it’s swallowed by the sea itself.
Even relatively calm waves like this could pull me and my creaky old leg into the depths.
I can’t even press forward toward the town like this.
I can’t even manage this one, simple thing…
It’s time like these that I feel the emptiness beyond my stump the most acutely.
Frustration burns is my chest as the sun dips below the horizon.
As I stand there, unable to move forward or back, I see a figure approaching me.
Minamo: Hey! Natsu-kun!
Natsuki: Minamo…
Her home is just up the hill. What’s she doing out here?
Minamo: Look, there he is. Her came out to meet you.
ATRI: Natsuki-san…?
Behind Minamo cowers a timid-looking ATRI.
Minamo grabs her hand, and leads her over to me.
Natsuki: Why is she here?
Minamo: I met her when I went out to buy dinner ingredients for mom.
Minamo: It seems like she got lost and has been walking all around town looking for you.
Looking down, I see that her brand new shoes are already caked in mud.
Natsuki: I told you to go with Catherine…
She’s a robot. She can’t disobey my order like this.
ATRI: Yes, I went with her. I fulfilled your command as stated, and returned to you.
“Go with Catherine”… She must have literally gone to wherever Catherine’s staying, and then come back alone.
Minamo: Isn’t this lucky, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: It really is, Minamo. Thank you for leading me here.
Minamo: Hehe, no problem. Don’t get lost again though, you hear?
ATRI: I won’t get lost again. I’ve learned something.
ATRI lets go of Minamo’s hand, and trots over to me. She immediately clings onto my sleeve again.
Minamo: Okay, see you. Ah, Natsu-kun, make sure to come to school tomorrow. We’re having special class meeting.
She waves and runs off.
I’m left alone with ATRI on the flooded pathway.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: …
We stand there, silent. Suddenly, a wave comes crashing over the tarmac, and my prosthetic shudders beneath me.
I start to tip over into the murk-
ATRI reaches out to keep me upright.
ATRI: Well what do you know. Much more high-performance than your leg, right?
Looking at her triumphant smile, I can’t bring myself to respond.
ATRI: It’s dangerous here. We should move, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: O-Okay…
She grabs my hand, and pulls me back down the hill.
Reaching the ship, I come to a stop on the pier.
ATRI: What’s wrong?
The night is so dark by now that I can’t see my feet. The seas are churning below me, a deep, endless expanse of black.
The ship is swaying, drifting back and forth from the pier.
ATRI: Oh, you can’t cross like this, can you? Hehehe, it’s my time to shine!
ATRI suddenly grab hold of me and hoists me up.
Natsuki: Huh!?
Surprised, I flail around, and plant my elbow straight into ATRI’s face.
ATRI: Oww! Tak, that hurts, you know?
Natsuki: S-Sorry!
Even though I gave her a good whack, her response is strangely muted. I suppose robots must be more robust than humans.
ATRI: Just stay still. If you flap around, I could end up dropping you in the sea.
ATRI hops from the pier, holding me tightly against her.
I feel cold water enveloping me, dragging me down into the depths.
This is it. I’m going to die.
Natsuki: Hurk! Hahh, hahh…!
ATRI: Phew, that gave me a shock!
We manage to clamber back up onto the pier.
Natsuki: You idiot! You could have killed me!
ATRI: I’m sorry. I miscalculated my trajectory…
She giggles and sticks out her tongue. Yeah, just try and act cute after almost drowning me…
Not needing to breathe seems to mean that she doesn’t seem to be afraid of sinking at all.
In my case, just touching the cold moon its waters filled me with the fear of death.
Natsuki: Going swimming twice in one day. Lucky me…
I jump over to the ship, soaked to my bones, without her help.
I’m pretty sure there’s no danger of her catching a cold, but nevertheless, we need to dry her clothes.
That, however, comes with a problem.
Natsuki: Wh-What are you doing dressed like that?
ATRI: Oh, should I take these off too? I am all wet, after all.
ATRI: Ah, doing so would be potentially problematic from the standpoint of robotical ehics-
Natsuki: Whatever, just stop!
ATRI: Oh, you’d prefer if I didn’t take them off? What a shame…
What!?
Ahem, anyway, I have by this point changed out of my wet clothes into my pajamas.
Drying off my hair with a towel, I sit on the bed and remove my prosthetic.
ATRI looks at it, and lets out a satisfied puff of air.
ATRI: Yep, I’m far more high-performance than that.
What’s with this weird sense of competition with a second-hard prosthetic leg?
Natsuki: This leg didn’t throw me into the sea, though.
ATRI: That’s not true! It was thanks to that thing that you ended up falling into the water like a chump earlier! It betrayed you!
…She has a point.
When I tried to save ATRI, it came off and dropped me into the drink.
Natsuki: (“Betrayed” ? ”Like a chump”? Is that what it looked like to her?)
ATRI: I’ve got loads more joints than that thing, and I can even walk on my own. And, y’know, other stuff too.
ATRI: What can I do to make you see how useful I really am?
It seems she’s seriously hung up on this nonsense.
Natsuki: (What a strange robot…)
The robots I’ve come into contact with in the past were largely ones that had had their functionality greatly limited. They wouldn’t even speak unless required, let alone have self-doubts like this.
Natsuki: By the way, what was the order you were given?
ATRI: The what?
Natsuki: The order your master gave you just before she put you to sleep.
I completely forgot to ask her before.
ATRI: Umm… Err…
Depending on her answer, I might even help her.
More than anything, I’m just curious what the last thing my grandmother asked of her was.
ATRI: Umm… That data seems to have been lost.
I feel like a fool for expecting a serious response from her.
ATRI: Hmm, what was it? Umm…
Natsuki: Robots can forget things too?
ATRI: Humanoid memories are stored using algorithms that are based on human neural links, so I am as capable of forgetting as anyone.
Natsuki: It’s weird that you’d forget something so important, though.
ATRI: I can’t choose what to remember and what to forget!
I recall learning at The Academy that Humanoids perform optimization on their memory storage while in sleep mode.
They archive data acquire that day, and delete unneeded memories.
But left in sleep mode for too long, it’s possible that memory faults may start to occur.
ATRI: Natsuki-san, umm… What kind of order do you think it was?
Natsuki: How would I know?
Natsuki: (Maybe it had something to do with that “project” she mentioned…)
She told me to salvage ATRI, and take her somewhere.
I really should have listened properly to her words. I’m incredibly curious now.
ATRI: Gah, this is annoying…
ATRI squats down with her head in her hands.
Natsuki: I’m starting to get the feeling that you’re halfway to being a piece of scrap-
ATRI: Hey, that word isn’t allowed!
ATRI: Calling robots that is banned under the Humanoid Anti-Discrimination Statute! You could face a penalty of up to three months in prison, or, err, what was it? Umm…
Natsuki: Once again, I feel stupid for expecting a serious answer.
More than a little exhausted, I flop backward on the bed.
ATRI: I’ll try and remember, I really will!
…
Not getting any response out of me, she sidles up to the bed.
ATRI: Natsuki-saaan…
Natsuki: I’m going to bed. Be quiet. You should get some sleep or something too.
Natsuki: If you want a sleeping bag, there’s one in the drawer over there.
ATRI: I’m fine with just a chair. I can sleep compactly wherever my master wants. I’m high-performance, after all.
Natsuki: Right. Goodnight.
ATRI: Ooh, one last thing, Natsuki-san!
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: Is there anything in particular you want to do when you get your leg back?
Natsuki: Hahh… Why are you asking me that all of a sudden?
ATRI: Well, I’m your leg now. I can’t not ask you, can I?
ATRI: I’ll do anything you want, so use me as you will!
Natsuki: I’m telling you, I don’t need your help!
Feeling a stab of pain in my chest, I turn coldly away from her and lie with my back to her.
The flickering lights finally give out, and the ship is plunged into darkness.
The night is windless.
Melancholy clouds obscure the moonlight, casting the seas in a somber gloom.
The damp air costs my skin in a horrid slickness.
I wonder how long it has been since I closed my eyes.
When I open them, I can see clearly through the gloom.
A creeping discomfort tickles at my nerves.
The radio is silent.
The waves are shallow.
It’s too quiet.
Please, something make a sound.
If I don’t hear something, anything…
Natsuki: (No. Don’t come for me…)
The pain hasn’t even begun yet, and already my breathing is ragged.
It’s like I can feel the weight of the silence crushing down on me.
Natsuki: (Just fall asleep… If I can fall asleep, I’ll be okay…)
“Is there anything in particular you want to do when you get your leg back”
ATRI’s words are still reverberating around my head.
Natsuki: (What do I want…?)
I’ve only ever thought about how to get my leg back.
I always believed that if I just managed to do that, the future I’d lost would be returned to me too.
Natsuki: (I know I’m wrong… I’ve just convinced myself out of desperation…)
I needed a reason to live on, a way to force myself to accept my circumstances.
I was studying in the city, at a school the call The Academy.
An elite institution intended to prepare the new generation’s brightest minds to save this doomed world.
Yeah. That’s right. I was supposed to save the world.
I thought it was possible. I believed it, without a single shred of evidence.
But that’s not a road I can travel anymore.
My father, who had been sending me the money for my tuition from wherever he is, suddenly stopped funding my studies.
A professor I’d clashed with used this as an excuse to have me thrown out of classes.
Natsuki: (Until that point, I though the world was fair, that all you needed to succeed were the right ideals…)
I should have seen the world for what it really was in that tunnel.
The moment that I lost my mother, and my leg.
I should have learned the unfairness of it all.
To pay my tuition, I had to sell my prosthetic leg.
It was a highly-advanced cybernetic model, which fetched quite the price.
I didn’t think about the fact that it was meant to replace the limb I using my entire life. It was like selling the simple ability to stand on my own two feet, just to pay my debts.
Yet somehow, I thought it would work out okay.
I’d been on my own for long time, I was used to handing things myself.
But life without my leg at that Academy, friendless and looked-down-upon, was harder than I could have imagined.
The phantom pain that I though had long disappeared returned.
One morning, my body breaking down from night upon sleepless night, I just ran away.
I dropped out, discarded everything, and came back to this godforsaken town.
“If I just get my leg back, I’ll have a future again.”
As much as I tell myself that, I’m still terrified of the nighttime.
Natsuki: (Everything’s fine like this. I don’t have a future anyway…)
Natsuki: (I’ll just wait to be swallowed up by the sea, just like this wretched world.)
Natsuki: (I’ll just sink into the depths. It’d be so easy to do…)
Just like that day…
The day I lost my leg.
The day I lost my mother.
The day I lost my future.
What better way to get revenge on this world than to deprive it of one of those few remaining, sad little lives it still holds? Just like that day…
Natsuki: (But I don’t want to die. I just don’t want to go yet…)
Natsuki: (Someone, anyone… Save me… Mom… Dad…)
Natsuki: (Anyone… Anyone!)
Somebody reach into this suffocating darkness, and pull me out!
I thrust out my hand, vainly hoping.
I know it’s useless. I know that I’m alone. No one will venture into this dark tunnel to save me.
I’m going to be left behind.
The I feel a touch.
Natsuki: (Huh!?)
What…?
Natsuki: (Don’t I fall asleep?)
Racked by my phantom pain and writhing on the bed, I’ve been holding my hand out into the damp air.
I do that a lot, but somehow it’s different tonight.
There’s another hand, meeting mine.
ATRI: Being able to shout even while asleep is quite the trick. Is that some kind of error in your mental programming?
Natsuki: ATRI…
ATRI: Hmm, his brain might need some maintenance.
Natsuki: If that’s something you can do, go ahead. Cut all the bad memories out of me, and let me live an easy life…
ATRI: I’ll give it a try.
Peering into my eyes with a serious expression, she reaches out to pat my head.
She’s holding a towel in her hand.
ATRI: Let me wipe all of this sweat off of you first, or you’ll catch a cold. Humans aren’t as sturdy as robots, after all.
Of course, those small hands can’t wash away all of the memories. But it’s strange…
Natsuki: (I can feel the pain receding…)
The sickening ache where my leg should be is gradually fading into nothing.
Not lurking like when I sleep, threatening to strike me again at any time…
But soothed completely.
Hot tears begin to well in my eyes.
Tears long held back, my body too overwhelmed with the pain to let them out.
ATRI: Why are you crying? Does it still hurt?
Natsuki: No, it’s not that… I’m…
I try to hold back the tears, my hands shaking and clenched into fists. But I know it’s no use.
I’m tired of it all. Enduring the pain, hiding the fear. I just… I just want, for once, to feel some warmth.
Natsuki: You’re… my leg, aren’t you?
ATRI: Indeed I am! And I’m much more high-performance than your other one!
I take that tiny hand of hers, and pull her closer.
I wrap my arms around her.
ATRI: Oh…?
I hold her fragile form against me.
I bury my face into her chest, and close my eyes.
ATRI: Umm… Natsuki-san, I would prefer to wipe you down first…
Natsuki: I’m fine like this.
ATRI: Are you trying to wipe your sweat on me? Umm, I’m supposed to be a leg, not a towel.
Natsuki: Legs don’t complain.
ATRI: …I’ve learned something.
Natsuki: …
The tears stream down my cheeks in searing rivulets. I feel no pain at all.
I shakingly tighten my grip on ATRI, and whisper.
Natsuki: Will you let me fall asleep like this?
ATRI: Of course.
I open my eyes, seeking that soft voice.
She’s smiling.
A smile I feel spreading through me, like a flood of pure, cleansing water.
Natsuki: (It’s this… This is what I’ve wanted this whole time…)
To have my leg again, and to experience once single peaceful night.
Yet I feel that even the most advanced cybernetics could not give me as gentle and soothing a night as this.
ATRI: Hehe…
ATRI strokes my hair, smiling down at me.
My heart aches with the pain of a thousand sleepless nights.
But now, I’m at rest.
The horrors of the past, and the fears of the future, all gone.
Before long, I feel my consciousness slipping away…
ATRI: Good night, Natsuki-san.
I drift into a tranquil sleep.
When I wake, I feel the gentle rocking of the waves.
Natsuki: …
The wind turbine spins outside of the window, and the comfortable drone of the radio news fills the room.
I can’t remember the last time I woke up so unburdened by pain.
A whisper tickles my ear.
ATRI: Hmmmnmnn…
A sweet, tingling breath.
I slowly open my eyes, and look over to the source.
ATRI: Ahhn... Not there, Natsuki-san… You naughty boy… Hehe♪
Natsuki: …
I carefully slip my arm out from under her, and leave her on the bed.
My head feels completely clear.
That clearness, however, means I remember every pathetic thing I did last night.
Natsuki: …I wish I was dead.
The memories weight heavily on my mind.
ATRI: Mmmn… Nyehehe… Natsuki-saaan…
Natsuki: I didn’t know robots could talk in their sleep. Is she dreaming while she’s in sleep mode?
Humanoids are supposed to use sleep mode to reorganize their memory banks. I wonder if that process appears to them something like a dream.
ATRI: Is there anything in particular you want to do when you get your leg back?
Natsuki: I guess she really forced the answer out of me in the end.
Looking down at her peaceful demeanor, I can’t help but feel a twinge of anger.
I was content to blame everything on my leg.
Blame it on that, and just wander alone through the deep, looking for something I’d never find. That would have been the easy life, I though.
Natsuki: …And yet I ended up finding this thing.
ATRI: Mmn, aaahn… Natsuki-san, you silly boy… ♡
But what do I want now?
Sighing, I pinch ATRI’s cheek.
ATRI: Hehe… That tickles!
Natsuki: I can’t let her see me like that again. I don’t want her acting all smug.
I look up out of the window.
The drizzle and haze of last night has given way to glorious sunshine.
Natsuki: Right, get up, toaster.
ATRI: My name is ATRI… That’s another recognized term of abuse! Your punishment for repeat infringement is… Rocket punch!
Her hand lightly boinks against my belly. It doesn’t hurt one bit.
Natsuki: Huh… I guess being half-asleep somehow lets robots attack humans?
Unless that wasn’t an “attack” ? What was it, then?
Natsuki: Whatever, Get up.
ATRI: Argh!
She looks around the room with bleary eyes.
ATRI: Oh yes… Last night, I slept with him…
Natsuki: Please don’t word it like that.
ATRI: Good morning, Natsuki-san… “yawn”!
Natsuki: I never thought a robot would have this much trouble waking up.
ATRI: I’m a low-voltage model… Mmn, hahh…
What does that even mean?
ATRI sits up on the bed, stretching her neck from side to side.
ATRI: Ugh, I slept in a weird position, and now my joints are all creaky…
Natsuki: Hurry up and put some clothes on. I don’t know where to look right now.
ATRI: Kay…
Natsuki: Plus, well… I’ve decided not to sell you.
ATRI: …Oh?
Natsuki: I don’t want to lose another leg, or a body pillow, or whatever we’re saying you are now.
ATRI: Yeah, I knew you’d come around! Now you realize how high performance I am, right?
Natsuki: Put some damn clothes on!
Maybe I’m just being self-destructive again.
I know that this decision has no future merits beyond the immediate benefits.
Natsuki: (But it’s better than just wasting away, isn’t it?)
My heart wells up with a strange feeling. It’s like the path into extinction I had though to be so easy to walk suddenly diverging, leading me to a very distant destination.
There’s something meditative about brushing your teeth.
Staring into the mirror and mechanically moving my hand, I start to get lost in though.
Natsuki: (It’s all well and good making my own decision, but now do I actually support myself from here on out?)
It’s one thing to say I’m not going to sell ATRI.
But the consequences are another thing entirely-especially when you consider the two in particular that stick out like sore thumbs.
The first of those being my debts.
If I don’t sell ATRI, my grandmother’s debts will likely have to be paid with everything else I own.
If it was just the submarine I might be able to make do, but I losing my boat would mean losing my home.
To tell the truth, though, I’m not entirely sure I believe that repossession order is even real.
Why did I agree to go along with Catherine’s plan despite how shady it seemed, you ask?
Well, it’s all because she was offering me a concreate way to get my hands on at least half of whatever she wanted salvaged from my grandmother’s place.
Natsuki: (I was suspicious of her, for sure, but I had no real choice but to go along with it.)
When I left The Academy and came back here, I found the town half-submerged and my grandmother on her deathbed.
So no matter how suspicious it seemed, it was at least a chance to make something of my
Predicament. I had nothing to lose.
And in the end, there really was a treasure down there.
ATRI: Brushy brushy brushy brushy…
A little tuft of hair been bouncing up and down in the corner of my eye this whole time.
I glance downwards.
Said treasure is brushing her teeth alongside me.
Natsuki: (Robots brush their teeth too?)
Natsuki: (They don’t have to eat though, do they?)
Scientists attempted to research artificial organs that would allow a robot to power themselves with food, but practical models were never completed.
ATRI hasn’t eaten at all since I found her, and she doesn’t seem hungry at all.
Which brings me to my second problem-what do I do with her?
I could think op it as having bought a domestic servant, but somehow that idea sticks in my craw. Would it be better to treat her like a roommate? Shipmate?
ATRI: Brushy brushy brushy brushy… And spit!
Natsuki: (I’m a little bit terrified she’s suddenly going to start wolfing down all of my food…)
Without any income of my own currently, I’ve been surviving on the little money my grandmother had left.
I’m going to have to find some way of making some cash.
Natsuki: (I guess I’ll ask Minamo if she knows anythere in need of workers.)
She’s really the only person in this town I can call a friend.
Natsuki: Oh yeah. She told me to come to school…
ATRI: Nahuhi-shan.
ATRI looks up at me, toothbrush still in her mouth.
Natsuki: Don’t talk with your month full. Yeah?
ATRI: I can’t properly reach my back teeth. Would you brush them for me?
Natsuki: …
I take her toothbrush.
ATRI: Ahhhh.
It’s… not as “meditative” like this, that’s for sure.
ATRI: Ahhhhhhh.
Natsuki: …There you go. Now wash your mouth out.
ATRI: Gurglegurlegurgle… Ptoo!
She spits out into the cup in my hand.
Natsuki: …Why the hell am I the one brushing your teeth?
Wouldn’t it normally be the opposite?
ATRI: Isn’t performance maintenance on their robot an owner’s responsibility?
Natsuki: Ngh… Good point. Annoying, coming from you, but I get it.
I sigh, and rinse my own mouth out.
Natsuki: Just checking, but you don’t actually need to eat or anything, do you?
ATRI: Affirmative. I have no need for nutrition from food.
Natsuki: Great. Well, that’s a weight off of my mind.
Natsuki: Now that I’m not selling you, money’s going to be pretty tight around here. On top of keeping myself alive, I’ve got those debts to pay.
ATRI: I don’t think you need to worry about that so much.
ATRI: I only want you to put off selling me for forty-five days. After that, you can sell me for however much you would like.
Natsuki: What? I told you, I’m not selling you.
ATRI: You won’t be able to afford a new leg if you don’t, will you?
Natsuki: I though you were supposed to be my leg.
ATRI: Although I can understand why you’d want to have such a high-performance leg as me, I’m not really specialized to carry out the functions required of that particular lime.
ATRI: As such, I will only be able to act as your leg for forty-five days.
ATRI: And to that end, I’ve made this!
ATRI: I call it ‘Atri and Natsuki’s Honeymoon Countdown Calendar!’
It’s a roughly-drawn grid of forty-five squares. The last one is labelled “That’s all folks!”
ATRI: I’ll cross off each day as we go. Ah, I should fill in yesterday. Hmhmm…
ATRI: Okay, forty-four days left.
Natsuki: …Whatever.
ATRI: …Natsuki-san?
I turn my back on her, and walk back into the cabin.
Natsuki: (Why am I getting annoyed with her…?)
I thought she was my property, but it really doesn’t feel like that at all sometimes. Why does that get to me, though?
I’m annoyed all over again, this time at myself.
She’s a robot, and I’m her master. If I ordered her to, she’s have to stay with me as I want.
Then why doesn’t it feel that way?
Natsuki: If you’re fine with that, then I don’t care. It’ll make my life a lot easier.
Natsuki: I’ll have a lot less on my plate with you gone, I suppose.
ATRI: Yayyy!
ATRI raises both hands in the air, and starts to bounce up and down. The little tuft of hair sticking up from her head wibbles with each jump.
ATRI: Yay, yay, yayyyyyy!
With her arms raised and her hair flying everywhere, I can finally get a good look at her face.
Due to the difference in our heights, normally all I can see is that little tuft on the top of her head.
Natsuki: What are you so happy about all of a sudden?
ATRI: We’re going to go to school now, right?
Natsuki: What? Not a chance.
ATRI: Oh, come on. At least tell me why not, then?
My only response is a sigh.
ATRI: I know all about school. It’s a place where you can learn all kinds of things, right?
Natsuki: Is that what you’ve got logged in your database?
Humanoid memory has one particular section devoted to a database of terminology, almost like an inbuilt , editable dictionary.
ATRI: Umm… I think somebody told me that a long time ago…
Natsuki: Who, my grandmother?
ATRI: Hmm… Gah, I can’t remember.
It seems like she gets particular frustrated when she can only partially remember things.
ATRI: I want to try learning things!
Natsuki: Wouldn’t you be better off searching for your lost memories before your forty-five days are up, though? It’s hardly the time to be learning new stuff.
ATRI: But when I hear the word ‘school’ I just get strangely interested…
ATRI: I think part of my lost memories might be there.
Natsuki: Huh? Have you been to school before, maybe?
She shakes her head.
It seems less in denial and more not knowing the answer. That must be another thing lost from her memory.
I’m starting to think almost everything from before she was put to sleep in that storehouse gone.
ATRI: But… I think I wanted to go to school, at some point.
ATRI: It’s okay, isn’t it? Right, Natsuki-san? C’mon, let me go, let me go…
She pull forcibly on my sleeve.
Natsuki: I said no.
I turn away.
ATRI: There you go again, acting like a petulant child. Bad Nacchan!
Natsuki: Who’s the petulant child here, exactly? And don’t call me weird names like that! What’s a robot gonna do at school anyway?
ATRI: Hehe, well, I’ll let you in on a little secret. I, being the high-performance model that I am, have an enhanced capacity for learning!
ATRI: I want to learn all kind of things, and become the best robot I can possibly be! I want everybody to depend on me!
Natsuki: And you think you’ll manage that in forty-five days? There’s got to be a better way to spend your time.
ATRI: That’s exactly why I want to learn, as quickly as possible!
So she wants to be the best possible robot ready for her next master. That does make sense, even if the though makes my chest tighten…
ATRI: Why don’t you like going to school, Natsuki-san? You started throwing a tantrum when Minamo mentioned too.
That is absolutely, objectively not what I did.
Natsuki: It’s just pointless.
ATRI: What, studying?
Natsuki: It’s pointless going to school in a town like this. The schools around here are just too far below The Academy’s level.
In order to even get into The Academy, you have to have already studied everything you would cover in a regular high school.
Natsuki: There’s nothing left for me to learn there.
I don’t mean that in a self-aggrandizing way. That’s just the simple reality of the situation.
ATRI: In that case, you can just be my companion.
Natsuki: Why would I do that? Just go on your own.
ATR: I can’t do that. I’m your leg. I can’t exactly leave your side, can I?
She reaches out and grasps my sleeve.
Natsuki: I don’t care about that. Go, if you really want to.
Sighing and tutting, I turn my back on the conversation and walk out onto the deck.
ATRI: Where are you going?
Natsuki: For a walk. It’s not like I’ve got anything better to do.
ATRI: Awwww!
ATRI: C’mon… I wanna go to school…
Half an hour later…
ATRI: …What is this place?
Natsuki: No idea. I just picked a direction to walk in, I didn’t know where we’d end up.
Standing before us is a half-sunken concrete building.
ATRI: Wow… It’s amazing how half of it is underwater. I don’t have any entries on this kind of avant-garde architecture in my database…
Well, of course not. At the time she was put to sleep, this building would have been on the top of a hill.
ATRI: Searching, searching… Hang on, is this a school?
Natsuki: Huh, well, what do you know? What a coincidence.
ATRI: Heh, I guess you’re out of luck, Natsuki-san. You’re accidentally brought me exactly where I wanted to go.
Natsuki: Truly, I am foxed. Anyway, let’s pop in and see Minamo while we’re here.
ATRI: Okay, sounds great!
ATRI grins, utterly clueless. There is one problem with that plan, though.
Natsuki: How the hell do you even get into this place?
The school buildings are tangled up in a thick web of ivy, tree branches infiltrating through cracks in the concrete and shoulder-deep water covering every obvious pathway.
Surely they’ve given this place up to the waves, and moved somewhere else-
Child A: Ah! It’s the Hitman!
Natsuki: Huh?
A child spots us from one of the windows, only to duck down as soon as I look in the direction of her shout.
Natsuki: (There really are people inside.)
…Wait, ‘Himan’?
Natsuki: Let’s go home. I’ve got a bad feeling about this.
As I turn to leave, I hear more voices.
Child B: Really? Where is he?
Child C: Has he come to assassinate us?
Child A: There he is! He’s got a weapon, and he’s brought his henchman too!
Child B: Oh no, it is him! We’re all gonna diiie!
The children crowed around the window, pointing down at us and babbling in fear.
ATRI: Natsuki-san… I detect hostiles in this area. Time to unleash my true form, and engage offensive maneuvers.
Natsuki: Give me a break. I don’t want to know what passes for your ‘true form.’ We’re leaving.
Child A: They’re running away! Pfft, looks like this Hitman’s nothing to be scared of after all.
Child B: Chicken Hitman! Bwark bwark bwark!
Natsuki: …
I stop and turn.
Natsuki: Hey, brats! If you don’t want me to shower this whole place in lead from my machine-cane, get down here right now!
I wave my walking stick in their general direction.
Child A: H-He’s gonna kill us!
Child B: Wh-What do we do!?
Child C: I’m scared!
Child A: Don’t worry. I’ll take him down!
Child B: Watch out, Ririka! Don’t let him fill you full of lead!
Child C: Be careful…
Child A: Leave this guy to me!
Suddenly feeling like a bad guy in some cheesy action flick, I wait until one of the kids comes out of the building.
She slowly paddles over to me in a small boat. Somehow, the scene loses a little of its tension.
Ririka: Here I am, Hitman! Don’t underestimate my power!
Brandishing the paddle like a sword, the little girl stares me down with fiery eyes.
ATRI: If you want Natsuki-san, you’ll have to go through me! And I have the high ground!
ATRI stands imperiously above her, arms outstretched as if daring her to attack.
Ririka: Shove off, shorty!
ATRI: ‘Shorty’!?
Natsuki: Yeah, shove off, shorty.
ATRI: You too!?
Ririka: Hitman, I challenge you to a duel!
Natsuki: Let me ask you one thing first. Is that your nickname for me?
The kid nods.
Ririka: Everyone in town’s saying that you’re some kind of assassin. And that you’ve killed three people, and now you’re lying low here.
Ririka: And, and, you’ve got a machine rifle blow dart grenade gun in your cane, and a napalm cannon in your leg! I know all about you!
Natsuki: (That’s really what the people around here think of me?)
ATRI: I-Is that true!?
ATRI turns to me, wide-eyed and pale in the face.
Natsuki: One hundred percent.
I’ll just leave that idea in her head for a while.
ATRI: …I can shoot my fists out like rockets, too. It’s true. They’re, err, even more powerful than his guns…
She won’t be winning any plaudits for her acting.
Natsuki: So, is that the boat you use to get into the school?
Ririka: You bet it is!
Natsuki: In that case, I’m getting in.
Ririka: H-Huh!?
ATRI: Ah, let me help you!
Natsuki: You want a second try at downing me? Not a chance.
ATRI: That won’t happen again. I’ve already learned not to do that.
ATRI climbs into the boat first, and holds her hand out to me. I guess she really has learned what to do…
Ririka: H-Hey, wait, don’t get in here! Minamo-chan and everyone else are fin the school-
Natsuki: Ah, perfect. Minamo’s who I’m here to see.
Ririka: She’s your target!? Oh no! Minamo-chan, I’m sorry, I gave you away!
RIrika: Hic, *sniffle* … Y-You’d better watch out! Ryuu-chan’s gonna beat the hell outta you!
I don’t even know who that is.
RiRika: Grrr, I can’t believe I messed up. I’m so sorry, everyone!
Tears streaming down her face, the little girl starts to paddle.
Natsuki: (…She could just not take us?)
The boat comes to a stop at what seems to be a hole in the wall, as if a second-floor hall has been abruptly cut off.
It seems like the side of the school nearest to the sea has completely collapsed, likely when the ground beneath it subsided when the waters around here rose.
Natsuki: So this is the entrance?
Ririka: Yeah, it is! Argh, I’m not gonna forgive you if you hurt any of my friends!
ATRI pulls me up out of the boat, and we walk inside.
Compared to the outside, the inside of the building is surprisingly well-kept.
From the third floor upwards, it could pass for almost any normal school.
Natsuki: Where’s Minamo?
Ririka: What are you planning to do with her?
Ririka: Ah, I bet you’re in love with her, aren’t you!? She’s real pretty, after all.
Ririka: Did you come here to confess your love to her?
Natsuki: Just be quiet and take me to her.
Even caught up in her own little fantasy world, she’s taking us straight where we need to go. Maybe she isn’t such a bad kid.
From the end of the hallway, past rows of empty classrooms, I hear a hubbub of voices.
Minamo: If you finish your worksheets, come and tell me.
Child B: This ain’t the time to be studyin’ right now, Minamo-chan! Ririka’s in danger!
Child C: The Hitman, he’s gonna…
Minamo: Okay, okay, settle down. Where did she get to, anyway?
Natsuki: (Minamo’s the teacher?)
By the looks of it, this is the only class.
Ririka: Everyone, run!
The kid bursts into the class room, shouting.
Child B: Ririka! You’re okay!?
Ririka: Quick, the Hitman’s coming!
Minamo: Where have you been, Ririka? We’re in the middle of class!
Ririka: Minamo-chan, you’ve got to hide! He’s coming for you!
Minamo: Now now, don’t cry. Who’s ‘he’?
Ririka: The Hitman!
The kid (Ririka, presumably) points at me.
Minamo: Ah, Natsuki-kun. You actually came.
Ririka: Don’t go near him! He’s gonna shoot you!
Minamo: So ‘The Himan’ is your nickname for Natsuki-kun? He’s really not anything like that, you know.
Ririka: But he’s killed like three people!
Everyone stares at me, wide-eyed.
Minamo: That is true…
Natsuki: Right, bye.
Minamo: Wahh, wait! That was a joke! Ririka, don’t let him go!
Ririka: You’re not getting past me!
ATRI: Or me!
Natsuki: Wait, why are you stopping me?
ATRI: You’ve come all the way out here to school! You can’t leave without studying!
Ririka: Let’s get him, henchman!
ATRI: Roger!
ATRI and the girl pounce on me from both sides, clinging onto my shirt.
Natsuki: Why are you the one holding their lessons, Minamo? Where’s the actual teacher?
Minamo: Umm, well, to be honest, we don’t have one.
Minamo: She quit last month, and they’ve not sent us a new one…
The only people in the classroom are three elementary-schoolers, and two kids of high school age including Minamo.
Minamo: We’re supposed to have more students, but they don’t seem to think it’s worth coming to school.
Natsuki: I’d have to agree. If they want to study, they may as well do it at home.
Minamo: A lot of kids can’t do that. Some have to help out with the family business and some might not even have a home…
Ririka: Grrr…
Natsuki: How long are you going to keep that up?
I pick the girl up by her collar like a cat, and plonk her back down on the floor.
Ririka: I’m powerless to stop him!
Jeez, this kid’s loud.
Just as I’m thinking that, I receive some unexpected validation.
High School Boy: Be quiet, Ririka! Dammit, you woke me up…
A high school-aged boy, until this point sleeping on his desk with a towel wrapped around his head, shouts over at her.
Minamo: Tsk, you’re finally up. We’re in the middle of class, Ryuu-chan.
High School Boy: Class? Year, right. We’re not even got a teacher.
Minamo: I’m the teacher now.
Minamo: Minamo puffs herself up and clears her throat, but “Ryuu-chan” doesn’t seem to notice. He’s too busy glaring at me.
Ryuu-chan: …The hell are you?
There’s a sharp glint in his eye, which when combined with his muscular frame gives him quite the threatening presence.
I’d guess that I’m a little taller than him, but somehow it doesn’t seem that way.
ATRI: I’m ATRI. Why hello there.
ATRI skitters over to him and gives him a tiny bow.
Ryuu-chan: …Seriously, who?
Taken abackby her politeness, he shoots me a scowl.
Minamo: I mentioned that we had a transfer student, right? This is Natsu-kun.
Minamo: This is Nojima Ryuuji. Everyone calls him ‘Ryuu-chan.’
Minamo: And this girl is-
ATRI: Oooh, so this is ‘studying’? Let me give it a try.
ATRI snatches Ryuuji’s textbook, and starts to read it.
ATRI: Hmm…
Ryuuji: Hey, don’t just take my stuff.
ATRI: C’mon, you’re not using it, are you?
She breezily brushes off his annoyance, flicking through the book as cool as a cucumber.
Ryuuji: Tch…
Natsuki: Pfft!
I fail to suppress a chuckle.
Who could, seeing the school reprobate completely shut down by a tiny girl?
Ryuuji: Oi, you picking a fright or something?
Natsuki: No, I’m not the fighting type. Not with this body, for sure…
Ryuuji: Ugh. I don’t like the look of you, y’know.
Minamo: Now now, boys. You could stand to learn a thing or two from ATRI-chan. Sit down, and get studying.
I sigh and take my seat, begrudging settling in for a lesson from Ms.Minamo.
For a while, everyone merely reads their textbooks in silence.
Seeing ATRI so focused on her studying, the children seem naturally pulled along in her wake.
ATRI: Minamo-sense! I have a question!
Minamo: What’s up, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: About this part…
Minamo looks at ATRI’s textbook.
Minamo: That, umm… Err…
ATRI: You don’t understand either, Minamo…-sensei?
Minamo: Ack! W-Well, that’s Ryuu-chan’s textbook, isn’t it? He’s a third-year, so…
ATRI: What year are you?
Minamo: I’m only a first-year. I haven’t learned any of this stuff at all yet.
Natsuki: (Huh, so he’s a year older than me.)
Minamo: Hey, Ryuu-chan. Can you explain this part?
Ryuuji: Eh? Nah, not got a clue about that. I’ve not learned it either, y’know.
Minamo: Maybe that’s got something to do with the fact you never do anything in class…
Ryuuji: Yeah, yeah, ask a guy for help and then slap him in the face. Real nice.
With nothing else to do, I taken a look at what ATRI’s reading.
Natsuki: What do you need help with?
Minamo: Ah, this is a third-year textbook, Natsu-kun. You’re only a second-year, right?
ATRI: It’s this part.
It’s a math textbook. Seems pretty simple. Guess I’ll teach her how to solve it…
ATRI: Ooh, I see. Thank you.
Minamo: Wow, how did you know how to do that?
Natsuki: It wasn’t exactly a hard problem. Anyone could solve it if they’ve learned the method.
Ryuuji: Tch, look at Mr.Smarty-Pants over here…
Minamo: To be honest, there’s a lot of stuff in my textbook I don’t understand either, Natsu-kun…
Natsuki: Let me take a look.
Minamo: Great, thanks! Give me a second… So, this part here. And here. And this bit too. And here…
Minamo flicks through all of the notes she’s taken.
It seems like she’s been building up quite the library of question over the past month since the class was left without a teacher.
I go through them one by one.
Minamo: Wow… You’re a genius, Natsuki-kun!
I’m a little embarrassed to hear her say that, but helping her out wasn’t so bad, I suppose.
Natsuki: You’re Ryuuji, right?
Ryuuji: Yeah, and?
Natsuki: Let me take a look at your notes too. I may as well, while I’m here.
Ryuuji: What? Piss off, I don’t need your help!
His face turns bright red, almost too surprised to be angry.
Natsuki: Are you really going to sit in the corner and mess around, just because there’s no teacher to tell you off?
Natsuki: If you want, I can help you study.
Ryuuji: The hell? You’re really gonna just turn up here and act like you’re the teacher? I don’t need someone younger than me bossing me around.
Natsuki: I studied at The Academy, so I already know everything in your textbook.
Natsuki: You don’t have to be embarrassed. That’s just how things are.
Ryuuji: Whoa… You’re kinda special, you know that?
Natsuki: Really? Thanks, I suppose.
Ryuuji: That wasn’t a compliment. Anyway, what’s the point in a guy like me studying? It’s not like it’s gonna help me or anything.
Natsuki: It’ll give you more choice when you leave school. You could go to college, get good job, contribute to society, that kind of thing.
While a lot of universities were absorbed into The Academy when it was established, there are still some independent institutions in most places.
Many don’t have the budgets they’d like in this age of instability and depopulation, but some can still produce research and scholars to rival society’s best.
Ryuuji: Do you really think any of us here are ever gonna go to college?
I don’t really know anyone in the class except for Minamo, but it’s true that the likelihood of any of them getting into a university is extremely low.
Ryuuji: You’ve gotta be some bigshot elite dude to go to college, right? If you’re not born with a silver spoon in your mouth, you may as well not study.
Ryuuji: It’s just a waste of time, man.
Ryuuji: Like, if studying and getting all smart is so important, why are you in a place like this?
Ryuuji: Shouldn’t you be studying at that Academy or wherever?
Natsuki: You…
Minamo: Ryuu-chan, Natsuki-kun’s been through a lot…
Minamo leans over to whisper something in his ear.
Ryuuji: …Right, sorry. I got kinda heated then.
He stands up from his seat.
Ryuuji: I’m beat, so I’m gonna get going.
He walks off with his hands in his pockets, nose turned up, a scowl on his face.
But as he crosses the threshold into the corridor, I think I see something like a flash of regret in his expression.
Before I know it, the sinking sun is bathing the class room in a golden hue.
Minamo: Oh no, I didn’t realize it was this late.
Minamo walks over to the teacher’s desk, and rings a small handbell lying on top of it.
I guess that must be the closet thing they have to a school bell here.
Minamo: Right, that’s all for today.
ATRI: Are we stopping studying?
Natsuki: Looks like it.
Ririka: The Himan… He’s a monster… A Monster Hitman…
Child B: Phew, I though we were done for.
Child C: I, love, studying… I, love, studying…
The younger children are all lying flat out on their desks with dead, glassy eyes.
Natsuki: What’s up with those kids?
Minamo: I think you might have worked them a little too hard, Natsuki-kun…
Minamo’s eyes have lost some of their sparkle too, now that I notice.
Minamo: Ahaha… I’ve learned so, so much…
Natsuki: Maybe it was a little much to assume you’d be able to make up for a whole month in oneday.
I got so engrossed in teaching that I kind of lost trach of time.
Minamo: Everyone be careful on the way home, okay?
Child B: Okaaay. See ya, Ririka.
Ririka: See you tomorrow!
Child C: Bye bye, Minamo-sensei!
Minamo: Bye bye!
Natsuki: Oh yeah, I almost forgot. There’s something wanted your help with, Minamo.
Minamo: Help?
Natsuki: To be honest…
There’s a certain something absolutely essential that I’m going to need if ATRI’s going to be living with me, and Minamo’s the only personI can ask.
We start on our way home.
ATRI holds my hand, and kicks her be shoed feet up proudly with each step.
Out of the corner of my eye, I can see her cowlick bobbing up and down.
ATRI: Ahh, studying was no fun!
ATRI: Even though it’s just been one day, I already feel so much smarter! I’ll be a Super Robot in no time!
She puffs out her chest.
Natsuki: You really did work hard. You’re a quick learner, that’s for sure.
ATRI: I know, right? Ehehe!
And it’s not simply because she’s a robot either. Humanoids might be well-suited to mathematical equations, but they’re normally not great with cultural and social subjects.
Yet ATRI worked hard, and learned well.
She was so enthusiastic that I think a little of that ended up rubbing off on me.
ATRI: Let’s go to school tomorrow too, okay?
Natsuki: Well, if I feel like it.
I look over at her smiling face.
Natsuki: (Walking home from school holding a girl’s hand might not be so bad…)
I don’t think I ever imagined doing this. Not since my mom died, at least.
I was so focused on studying to get into The Academy, and then on staying there.
I don’t remember ever having a single moment as carefree as this back then.
I’m only holding her hand because she’s supposed to act as my leg, of course. She has to stay close to me to support me.
Natsuki: (I suppose this is how it’s going to be for a while.)
A relaxed existence, with no goal in sight, without feeling the need to study every waking moment of the day.
It’s almost like a long-belated summer holiday.
ATRI: Umm, why are you staring at me?
ATRI: …Ohhh, I get it. You want to kiss me, right?
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: Unfortunately, that kind of thing is against the Human-Humanoid Ethics Regulations.
ATRI: Violating the Regulation could lead to me being confiscated, so please be careful.
Natsuki: Those Regulations hardly matter these days.
Humanoids haven’t been build in years, and with so few remaining after the great sea rise, enforcing all the laws concerning them isn’t exactly a priority for the cops.
ATRI: So you really do want go kiss me! Even if you have done it before, doing it again would be, ahem…
Natsuki: Wait, I’ve never kissed you!
ATRI: Yes you have! Remember, when you fell in the sea!
Natsuki: Ah… Wait, no, that was CPR!
ATRI: A ‘kiss’ can be defined as contact between the lips of two people. It is often used as an expression of love between them. I can’t believe you don’t know such an important thing, Natsuki-san.
ATRI: You might be book-smart, but it seems like you’ve got a long way to go when it comes to social norms.
She shrugs and sighs.
Natsuki: I know what a kiss is!
ATRI: Oh? Doesn’t that mean you’ve had a lot of then?
Natsuki: Well, err…
ATRI: Hmm?
ATRI peers up with an inquisitive expression at my face, which is burning red.
For a moment I’m speechless, and it takes all I have to stutter out a reply.
Natsuki: …Th-That’s got nothing to do with you.
ATRI: I guess not!
Gah, this damm annoying heap of scraps!
Natsuki: Anyway, are you any good at housekeeping?
ATRI: Heh, of course I am! What do you take me for?
The majority of Humanoids are intended for domestic services. The whole reason they’s designed to look human is to blend in with the family .
Naturally, that means they’re equipped with all the skills they need to keep a house clean.
Natsuki: (Phew. That’s a relief.)
Doing any kind of housework is difficult with this leg. If she wants to be its replacement so much, that’s the least I can ask of her.
ATRI: Hehehe, leave dinner to me!
Minamo: Phew, I had so much to get ready that I’m really late.
Minamo: I wonder if Natsu-kun’s had dinner yet.
Natsuki’s Voice: Look, that’s enough! Jeez, just stop!
ATRI’s Voice: No way! I’ve got to show you exactly just how useful I can be!
A great tumult of crashing and bashing comes from the ship.
Minamo: Huh!? Are they fighting!?
Minamo: Stop! Don’t fight-
Minamo: …What?
Minamo: What on earth is going on in here!?
Forcing her way into the cabin, Minamo sets her eyes on the mayhem within.
The floor is littered with broken plates and cups. Piles of torn clothes and bedsheets are scattered across the room.
It looks like the place has been ransacked.
ATRI: Oh, good evening, Minamo.
Minamo: Evening… So what’s going on here?
Natsuki: It’s all ATRI’s doing.
Minamo: What happened? Don’t tell me her programming went haywire and she went into Beast Mode-
Natsuki: No. She’s just really, really bad at housework.
Minamo: This looks a little bit beyond ‘bad’…
ATRI: I’d like to point out that my ability to make human-like mistakes makes me particularly high-performance in that aspect-
Natsuki: Shut up. No human makes mistakes this bad, you piece of scrap-
ATRI: That is discriminatory language! If you don’t take that back, you will be charged under the Humanoid Anti-Discrimination Statute-
…*scrtch*!
ATRI: Owww!?
I grab hold of ATRI’s head, and start to grind my knuchles against it.
ATRI: Owww! Violence against Humanoids can be punished by up to three years imprisonment-
Natsuki: Shut you trap. I’m going to throw you back into the sea at this rate!
ATRI: P-Please no! I’m sorry! I’ll apologize!
ATRI: Ugh…!
Minamo: Wow, I’ve never seen you genuinely angry before. It’s scary…
ATRI: Hahhh… That was horrible.
A teary-eyed ATRI starts to clear up the scattered debris. At least she knows how to clean…
ATRI: Ack!
Her head whacks into a shelf, and a rain of books comes tumbling down no top her.
I take it back. She’s not even good for cleaning.
Minamo: A-Are you okay, ATRI-chan!?
ATRI: Oww… I’m fine. My skull is made of carbon fiber, so a little bump like this is nothing.
Natsuki: Were you really built to be a maid…?
ATRI: Heh, of course I am! What do you take me for?
ATRI: Hehehe, leave dinner to me!
Where did that confidence go?
Natsuki: I can’t believe I actually got my hopes up for a nice dinner…
ATRI: Whaaaaaa!?
ATRI falls to the floor, clutching at her heart.
Her earlier culinary handiwork wasn’t really what I’d call ‘dinner’… It could hardly even be described as ‘food.’ In fact, if you found it in a factory’s waste chute, the place would get shut down.
ATRI: I have no words to excuse myself. If I was a samurai, I’d be committing seppuku right now.
Minamo: Why is samura the first thing you think of?
ATRI: What I’m about to tell you is top secret. If it leaves this room, both of you could be in grave danger. Understand?
Natsuki and Minamo: Huh?
ATRI: The truth is… I am a military-grade battle robot build secretly by the special forces of a country that shall remain unnamed!
Minamo: What!? Seriously!?
ATRI nods, her expression solemn.
ATRI: I was dispatched to destroy this country, but by the time I arrived, my own had been obliterated. I lost my home, and my reason to exist.
ATRI brushes away a tear. Or at least she would, if she was actually crying.
Humanoids don’t even have the ability to cry, except for the purpose of cleaning their optical receptors.
ATRI: My master was the one that took me in when I was all alone.
ATRI: She gave me a name, and a new purpose-being her maid.
ATRI: But I found it too difficult to control my strength, and things would always end up like this. She scolded me so many times…
Minamo: ATRI-chan… *sniffle*!
Natsuki: Huh. I didn’t know it was possible for Humanoids to lie.
ATRI: That’s just how high-performance I am!
ATRI: …Ah.
Minama: That was all a lie!?
Natsuki: I didn’t expect you to confess that quickly!
ATRI: If I don’t convince myself I was really some kind of killing machine, then I couldn’t live with being so bad at simple chores. Or something like that.
ATRI: But I really do have some really vague memories of my master always scolding me before…
ATRI: Just because I was lying doesn’t mean it isn’t true, though!
ATRI: Consider two points: One, I am a robot; Two, I’m terrible at housework.
ATRI: If we apply universal deductive reasoning to these points, the only logical conclusion is that I am a killer military destructo-bot.
Wow. She’s so high-performance that she can even lie to herself. Shame she’s not high-performance that she can even lie to herself. Shame she’s not high-performance enough to know you generally have to crack an egg before trying to fry it.
Natsuki: I guess I’m going without dinner, thanks to you.
One thing this killer robot has succeeded in destroying is my food stocks.
ATRI: Aww… I’m so sorry! Please don’t throw me into the sea!
Minamo: Ah, you don’t have to worry about food for tonight.
Minamo timidly holds out her bag.
Minamo: Umm, I asked my mom to help me make some dinners for you…
Natsuki: Oh…
Minamo: (Arrgghh, he looks so creeped-out!)
Natsuki: Is it really okay for us to have them?
Minamo: Y-Yeah, it’s fine. You did help me study today, and it’s got to be hard living on your own, right?
I grasp Minamo’s hand with desperate intensity.
Natsuki: Thank you. Thank you, so much. You’ve saved my life.
Minamo: G-Great… Hehe, you even, umm, held my hand…
ATRI: Searching database for ‘woman plying man with food’…
ATRI: Aha, ‘the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach.’ I know what you’re up to!
ATRI points at Minamo.
Minamo: Th- Th- That’s not what this is! I’m just trying to help…
ATRI: However, I still have you beat! As the woman who sleeps with him every night, I am far closer to the definition of ‘wife’!
Minamo: You do what!?
Natsuki: You’re no such thing!
ATRI: Oh, I’m not? I’ve learned something…
Minamo: Phew…
Natsuki: Can I eat this already? I’m starving.
Minamo: Go ahead. There’s one for you too, ATRI-chan.
Natsuki: She’s a robot. She doesn’t need to eat.
ATRI: Mmm, this looks great.
ATRI: Mmm, *munch*… Truly delicious.
Natsuki: Why are you eating!?
ATRI: As a fully-equipped household robot, I have the capability to consume food.
Why would a robot need that?
Natsuki: You said you didn’t need to eat, didn’t you? You don’t get any nutrition from it…
ATRI: Correct, I don’t need food to survive. I’m just eating this, not digesting it.
So she can eat the food, but not actually do anything with it?
Natsuki: Jeez, you must have been built in a pretty decadent age, if you’re able to go around wasting food for no reason.
Natsuki: What even happens to the stuff you eat?
ATRI: …That’s not a subject to be discussed at the dinner table.
Minamo: You poop!?
Natsuki: …
How have I ended up saddled with this hunk of junk?
Minamo: I’m sorry about Ryuu-chan…
After dinner, Minamo starts sheepishly apologizing.
Natsuki: Why are you saying sorry for him?
Minamo: He’s not really a bad guy. He’s just got a big mouth.
Natsuki: I don’t really care.
Natsuki: And he has a point, I guess.
The subjects I studied at The Academy Were on a whole different level to what you’d learn at regular school. They wanted to create scholars who could contribute to saving the world.
It’s a place where you devote yourself to a higher purpose, and pour everything into your research… Or at least, that’s what I though for my first year there.
In reality, the place was rife with factionalism and authoritarian ideologues looking down on everyone outside of the school, and anyone who couldn’t perform to their standards.
Not everyone was like that, but you know what they say. One bad apple spoils the barrel.
Natsuki: I flunked out of The Academy, and ended up here.
Minamo: …Do you really think it’s pointless for us to study? Maybe it’s not worth if for us to school after all.
Minamo: I meant to talk to you about this earlier, but… That truth is, the school might be closed down soon.
Natsuki: I see.
Minamo: You don’t sound surprised.
Natsuki: Sorry to disappoint, but if anything I’m surprised that the place still exists.
It’s half-submerged, and has a grand total of five students and zero teachers.
It hardly even meets the definition of the word “school.”
Minamo: We technically have more students than you saw earlier, but they never turn up. They say it’s pointless…
Minamo: I get what they mean. Since our teacher left for the mainland, we’ve been all alone. The school really is going to close at this rate.
What am I supposed to do about that, though?
I’m guy who’s just ran away from one educational establishment. Why would I care about another?
Natsuki: …There pancakes are great. Did you make them?
Minamo: Huh? O-Oh, yeah. Hehe, thank you…
ATRI: Mmm, *munch*, they are good.
Natsuki: Hey, stop eating those. It’s a waste of good food. Are you even able to taste them?
ATRI: Of course. I have special high-performance sensors install in my mouth for the purpose of taste-testing dishes!
Natsuki: (I wish she was “high-performance” enough to actually make something worth tasting…)
A robot with taste-testing capabilities, but no skill at actually cooking.
Can you imagine anything more useless?
Minamo: I really wasn’t sure whether to make pancakes or omelettes. I didn’t know if you preferred savory or sweet things.
Minamo: I thought that since you’re a guy, you probably prefer savory…
Minamo: But Mom said that you seemed like a big softy really, and you’d prefer something sweet.
Minamo: Seems like she was right!
I’m not sure where her mother got that impression, given that I’ve only met her a few times.
Natsuki: Well, I guess they are pretty tasty.
Minamo: Hehe, great!
ATRI: Mmn, *munch*… I’m starting to think you’re kind of dumb, Minamo.
Minamo: Wh-What!? Why would you say that!?
ATRI: According to the analysis of my high-performance A.I. drive, Natsuki-san just said that to change the subject.
Minamo: Huh…?
Minamo: Ah, that’s right!
Natsuki: Dammit, you piece of…
I can understand Minamo’s frustration, but there’s nothing I can do about the school. Carrying on the conversation would just be an annoyance.
Minamo: …
Minamo’s face is etched with sadness.
Natsuki: I’m sorry, I was joking.
Minamo: So my pancakes aren’t actually nice?
That’s what she’s upset about?
Natsuki: No, that was true. Say thanks to your mom for me.
Minamo: Really? Great! I’ll tell her you said that.
Minamo: I didn’t make any today since it’s pretty difficult, but she taught me how to make all kinds of soups and stuff too…
ATRI: Mmmn, *munch*…
ATRI gives her a pitying look.
Minamo: Huh?... Wait a second!
Minamo: Gah, Natsu-kun!
Natsuki: That one’s on you.
Natsuki: There’s no point in a bunch of minors discussing the school closing, is there? That’s something adults are going to decide.
Minamo: That’s true, but…
They’re the ones who want to shut down the school in the first place. Even if some kids turn up saying “please keep it open,” they’re not going to listen.
Natsuki: (You can plainly see from the fact we don’t have electricity that the powers that be already given up on this place.)
I look out of the window toward the town, lying silent beneath the darkening skies. Even as the evening draws in, not a single light is visible.
When the seas rose, this area was cut off from the mainland.
The rising water caused flooding and landslides, and all of the electricity pylons carrying power to the town collapsed as a result. It’s been in the dark since.
The government has given up on the low-lying areas that are soon to be completely swallowed up, and simply recommend that everything moves inland.
Natsuki: What’s the problem if the school shuts down?
Minamo: Well, we’d all have to transfer to schools elsewhere.
Minamo: But that would be difficult for the younger children. Their families are in dire straits, and it would probably mean going to school would be impossible for them.
Minamo: I probaby couldn’t find another school that I’d be able to commute to, either…
Natsuki: And there aren’t any other schools around here?
She silently shakes her head.
Minamo: The elementary school, the middle school, the other high school…
In that case, if they wanted to study somewhere else they’d have to move.
That’s easier said than done these days, when there’s so little land to live on.
Minamo: That’s one reason Ryuu-chan is so on edge right now. He’s like the ringleader of the kids around here.
Natsuki: Really? He was saying an awful lot about how pointless studying is.
He did still come to school though, I suppose. Even if he did just sleep all day.
Natsuki: I feel the same way as he does. If you’re going to study, there’s no point doing it half-assed.
Minamo: Do you really think that? You always said that you were going to study as much as you could, and save the world.
Natsuki: That was a long time ago. I’m surprised you remember that.
I first met Minamo when I came to live with my grandmother. That was quite some time ago…
Minamo: Of course I remember. You said that, and then one day you just disappeared.
Minamo: But you saying that made me want to work hard and study too.
Natsuki: In the end, it’s all been pointless though, right? We can’t stop the school closing.
Kids like us can’t do anything about adult decisions. That’s the simple fact of the matter.
Minamo: But, but…!
Natsuki: Stop your whining. If you really want to study, I might be able to help you.
Minamo: Really?
Natsuki: We’re going to try a science experiment tomorrow, so be ready.
Minamo: Oh, Natsu-kun… You’re always so nice!
Natsuki: Jeez, why are you crying?
Minamo: I just… *sniffle* Ever since the teacher left, I’ve been worrying about this all on my own…
Minamo: And when you came back, I was sure that you’d be able to help…
Natsuki: Keep in mind, I’m not saying that I can solve all of your problems. I can just teach everyone a few things.
Minamo: Th-That’s fine…
ATRI: This turned out really well right, Minamo?
Minamo: It really did, ATRI-chan!
ATRI: Now now, don’t cry…
ATRI Pats the bawling Minamo on the head. It is, I must admit, a very cute sight.
Satisfied, I turn my attention back to my food…
Natsuki: Huh…? Hey! You ate my pancakes!
ATRI: You were so busy talking to Minamo that I though you were probably full up.
Natsuki: Food doesn’t even do anything for you! You should at least let me eat fill first!
ATRI: It doesn’t do something. It’s tasty, which makes me happy.
Natsuki: First you wreck my room, and then you eat my dinner…
ATRI: I’ll do better tomorrow. I have high-performance learning capabilities, so I’ve definitely got some takeaways from this.
Natsuki: You keep saying that, but your brain just seems like a heap of scrap to me!
ATRI: That’s the fourth time you’ve used discriminatory language against me!
ATRI: In accordance with Article 2 Clause 5 of the Robot Protection Statue, a fourth strike means I’m legally allowed to subject you to Pugilistic Punishment. That means I get to punch you!
Natsuki: That can’t be a real law! Shouldn’t the three laws of robotics stop you from harming a human!?
ATRI: Not in my case. I’m a military robot, you know!
Natsuki: Okay then, just try it. Do your worst, toaster.
ATRI: …If I used my full power on you, it is possible that I might kill you. Therefore, I will refrain from punishing you.
ATRI: Heh, looks like you live to see another day, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Get in the sea. Now.
Minamo: Hehe! ♪
Watching the two of us argue, Minamo stops crying. Instead, she laughs.
Minamo: You seem just like you used to, Natsu-kun. Since you came back you’ve been so gloomy.
Minamo: But it looks like ATRI-chan’s really had an effect on you.
ATRI: I don’t really know about that, but my duty as a robot is to make people happy. If I’m doing that for Natsuki-san, then I’m satisfied.
Minamo learns in to whisper something into ATRI’s ear.
Minamo: (Natsuki-kun can be a real grump, but he’s a nice guy. Take care of him.)
ATRI: Leave him to me. He’ll be right as rain as long as I’m around.
Natsuki: (More like I can sense a storm coming…)
Minamo: Anyway, I should get going. If I’m too late home, Mon will be worried.
Natsuki: I’ll walk you back, seeing as it’s already dark out.
Minamo: No, I’ll be fine. There’s no one scary in this town who’s going to grab me or something.
This place has always had a reputation for being safe and peaceful.
In part, that’s due to the fact that everyone knows each other. It’s difficult for outsiders to come here without raising suspicion.
Minamo: Oh yeah, I almost forgot. Here’s what you wanted.
Minamo pulls a bundle of folded cloth out of her bag.
Minamo: I brought some that will suit ATRI-chan down to a T.
Natsuki: Thanks, you’re a big help.
Minamo: No problem. See you at school tomorrow.
She rushes off, looking significantly happier than she was when she arrived.
Minamo: Hehe, I’m so glab Natsu-kun’s back in town. It seems like he’s getting along really well with ATRI-chan too.
There comes a rustle from nearby.
Minamo: Huh?
A Cat?: Meowwww…
Minamo: Ohh, it’s just a cat.
A Cat?: Phew, that was close…
Catherine: I’m not letting you steal my payday from me, kid.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Is something wrong, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: No, it’s nothing. I just thought I heard someone outside.
ATRI: Hmmm… My high-sensitivity cyber-eyes don’t detect anyone.
Natsuki: Must have been a passing fisherman or something.
About the only people who would ever come around here are me and people who need a quiet place to fish.
Natsuki: Anyway, take your clothes off.
ATRI: Wha…?
ATRI: O-Okay… If that is what you want, I’m prepared to do whatever it takes.
Natsuki: I diot, I didn’t mean anything dirty by that. Look.
I open the package Minamo brought me.
It is, as I told her, something absolutely essential that I’m going to need fi ATRI’s going to be living with me.
That’s why I sent her out after school to fetch me some pajamas for her.
ATRI: …So those are the kind of panties you like. I’ve learned something.
Natsuki: Huh…?
I take another look at the piece of cloth I’ve just unfolded.
Yup. Those are panties.
Natsuki: Just what did Minamo think when I said ‘something essential’!
ATRI: I’ll just try them on.
ATRI strips off her dress, and puts the present from Minamo over her existing panties.
ATRI: How do they look?
Natsuki: Huh… They actually do suit you.
They’re a pair of puffy, almost pumpkin-shaped drawers.
They couldn’t fit ATRI any better.
They’re a little different from what I was expecting, but I think Minamo’s done a good job, all said and done.
ATRI: I’ll have to thank her for these at school tomorrow!
Natsuki: Yeah…
It seems like she likes them too.
ATRI: How do you want to sleep tonight, Natsuki-san?
ATRI: Would you like me to be your leg again?
Natsuki: No, I’m fine. There’s a little wind tonight, so I should be okay.
ATRI: I see…
She looks disappointed. I guess she was hyped up on pumpkin power.
ATRI: I’ll be right here, so if you need me, just say.
She makes an odd gesture, knitting her fingers together below her belly and swaying side to side, and there the night ends.
…
…
Natsuki: Dammit, I did it again.
ATRI: Zzz… Zzz…
I gently unwrap a happily-snoozing ATRI’s arm from around mine.
ATRI: Ahh… Good morning, Natsuki-san. Phew, I’m all sore. You’re so rough sometimes.
Natsuki: Please don’t say it like that…
ATRI: Well, you did forcibly pull me down on the bed, and use me all night…
Natsuki: …I have no retort to that.
It is, admittedly, true.
I didn’t feel the phantom pain last night.
But when the radio started to cut out, I got uneasy, and I pulled ATRI into bed.
Natsuki: Hahhh…
ATRI: Why are you sighing?
Natsuki: …It’s nothing. Come on, get your clothes on and get ready for school.
ATRI: Yaaay, school!
She snaps awake instantly.
With a pang of regret in my chest, I begrudgingly start to get ready.
ATRI: Grrr…
ATRI stares at me as I put on my prosthetic leg.
ATRI: You’re still going to use that thing? It’s useless, and no good for anything except replacing a leg.
Natsuki: That’s exactly what I need it for!
ATRI: …
Natsuki: What’s with that look?
ATRI: It’s so old and well-worn… I’m a little jealous.
First she’s angry at it, then she’s envious? It’s like she really does think of her self as a leg.
It might sound strange to say that about a girl who would appear to any random onlooker a completely normal human being, but for a robot, those are entirely valid feelings.
Natsuki: (A robot’s feelings…)
As A.I. developed, robots became capable of expressing many emotions.
Some even say that Humanoids like ATRI actually developed the ability to process and feel emotions just like humans after living together with us for so long.
But that’s an assertion that I’m more than a little skeptical of.
Those “emotions” are simply a result of A.I. logging and learning to replicate human expressions and behavioral patterns that they’ve witnessed.
Robots lack the one thing that could make these emotions real: Consciousness.
Natsuki: (If you can even really call the reactions of an unconscious, unfeeling being “emotions”…)
ATRI: Hmmmn…
ATRI glares at my leg like a cat that’s found something it doesn’t quite understand.
ATRI: If I lost any of my pistons or sockets it’d seriously affect my reputation as a high-performance robot… So I can understand how you feel…
ATRI: I know, I’ll do something to prove my worth to you! Do you need help with anything?
Natsuki: No, I’m fine.
I reply flatly.
The room is still littered with the detritus left over from last night’s travesty.
ATRI: Okay then, I’ll make breakfast.
Natsuki: No thanks. I’d rather eat my last remaining leg.
ATRI: Ah, I know you’d come to hate me eventually. Such is the fate of a killing machine…
Natsuki: You’re not a killing machine. You’re a glorified toaster, but less good at making toast.
ATRI: I suppose that for once I can’t argue. I really am just a toaster, cured with turning all I touch to ash and cinders.
She’s really eat on this “combat robot” excuse, isn’t she?
I ignore her, and strap on my prosthetic.
Natsuki: (She doesn’t really have the capacity to feel, does she? Sometimes I start to doubt myself around this girl…)
When something becomes an accepted truth in academia, it can be difficult to convince anyone that any evidence to the contrary is valid.
It’s not like I took anything more than the first, awkward steps into that world, though.
Natsuki: That kind of thing has nothing to do with me anymore…
Whatever specialist knowledge I gained there, it’s nothing but useless trivia out in the sticks.
ATRI: If there’s nothing else I should be doing, I’m going to go and mark off my calendar.
ATRI trudges over to where it’s hanging on the wall, and crosses off another day.
ATRI: Froty-three days…
Natsuki: By the way, did you recover any memories when we went to the school yesterday?
ATRI: …I was so happy to be studying, I forgot I was supposed to be doing that.
Natsuki: Jeez…
Natsuki: You know you’re only got until that calendar runs out, right?
Natsuki: …Not that I really care if you stay or not. Do whatever you like.
ATRI: I can’t stay, can I? You’ve got to sell me to pay off your debts.
Natsuki: True. Speaking of which, I wonder what’s happened to Catherine? I was sure she’d have come around here to complain by now.
I’ve not heard a peep from her since ATRI walked out on her.
I haven’t tried to contact her myself either. Why would I? I don’t even know where she’s staying.
Natsuki: …Right, there we go.
I push my foot against the ground, checking my prosthetic leg is properly attached. It might be an old piece of junk, but seeing ATRI so jealous, I can’t help but feel a strange affection for it.
ATRI: Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Yeah? What are you fidgeting like that for? Robots don’t need to go to the toilet too, do they?
ATRI: That’s sexual harassment! In accordance with the Robot Protection Statute, I’m charging you a fine. I’ll add it onto your debts.
Natsuki: Okay then. So?
ATRI: Can I have some paper and a pen? I’d like to log some items.
Natsuki: Ah, okay.
A robot’s actions and any associated feedback are usually recorded in a log.
They’re useful for troubleshooting in the case of a breakdown or when a robot’s undergoing maintenance. Humanoids record these logs by outputting them to an external source.
Basically, they write them down.
As Humanoid brains are based on the same neuron structure as actual human brains, they’re not capable of outputting directly in a digital format like your average computer.
So it’s necessary to record everything on paper.
It’s not like it matters much-the company that made ATRI is long gone. It’s likely her programming demands it, though, so if she doesn’t regularly output she’ll get uneasy.
Natsuki: We’ll buy some on the way to school.
ATRI: Yay! Thanks!
Before class, we stop by the market district.
There are some things I need for today’s lessons, as well as ATRI’s log.
ATRI: Wow, there’s so many notebooks! Hmm, which should I get?
Natsuki: Pick whichever one you like. Get yourself one for class too, while you’re at it.
I hand her a few coins.
ATRI: Hmm…
Natsuki: C’mon, don’t waste too much time picking. We’ll be late.
ATRI: Hmmmmmm…
No reply. This could take a while. I’ll go and grab what I need while she’s pondering over paper.
I think I’ll be able to find what I need at that junk school from before.
Suddenly, I feel a tug on my arm.
Natsuki: Huh!?
A hand grabs at me, pulling me into a dimly-lit backstreet.
Natsuki: Nngh!?
Pinned against the wall, I see a familiar face inches from mine
Catherine: Morning, kid. ♪
Natsuki: Catherine…
Catherine: Now now, don’t move. Unless you want this to be more painful than it needs to be?
Pressed into my chest, glinting in the light, is a knife.
Catherine: I only need to push just a little, and this will go straight into your heart.
Natsuki: Wh-What are you doing-
Catherine: That’s my line, kid. Exactly what are you planning with the robot?
Does she think I’m planning to sell ATRI and take all of the money for myself?
If that’s the case, I should clear up the misunderstanding… Not that the truth will go down well eighter.
Even if I’m not planning to sell ATRI, It’s true that I’m keeping her all to myself. Even if that’s probably not how ATRI sees it.
Catherine brings the knife up to my throat.
Catherine: You really thought you could act all cute and I’d let my guard down? Tsk. I was as nice to you, and then you go and do me over like this…
Natsuki: Hey now, I just didn’t know how to contact you…
Catherine: I want you to do something for me. I want you to tell that girl that I’m her master now. She’ll have to obey you, right?
Natsuki: …
Catherine: Or do you want to know what it’s like to have a hole in your throat?
The tip of the knife digs into my skin.
I’m sure this has to be a bluff. But faced with the amount of money the junk shop owner promised us, anyone could go a little crazy.
ATRI: Umm, Natsuki-san, what’s going on?
ATRI peers around the corner. She must have noticed me disappear.
Natsuki: ATRI, don’t come over here! Run!
ATRI: Oh, am I, umm, interrupting something?
Catherine: Ah, perfect timing. Come over here.
Natsuki: Don’t!
ATRI doesn’t move. She doesn’t try to help me either-that would involve potentially harming a human.
Of the three laws of robotics, the first-than a robots should never harm a human-has always been treated as particularly important.
If a robot was to hurt a human, that would cause a scandal.
It could spell disaster not just for the manufacturer, but the entire market. When robots were big business, safety was paramount.
Though ATRI might be able to put herself in danger and even take a blow for me, she wouldn’t be able to fight back against Catherine.
It’d be better for me to have her run and get help…
Natsuki: (No, I’ll be full of holes by the time she gets back!)
This could well be a bluff. Catherine wouldn’t gain anything from stabbing me. But I can’t be entirely sure of that.
I could try to escape, but there’s no chance of me outrunning her on this leg.
Catherine: Do it, kid!
Agitated, she presses me against the wall, the knife’s tip pointing ominously between my eyes.
I raise my arm instinctively, and the blade grazes against my arm.
I feel a trickle of red on my skin…
ATRI: ROCKET PUUUUUUNCH!!!
Natsuki: Huh!?
Catherine: HURK!
Catherine’s limp body goes sprawling all the way back out onto the main street, propelled by the enormous force of ATRI’s two-handed, almost tackle-like attack.
Catherine: Bwuh!? Hurk, ugh…???
Clutching her stomach, she turns her head back toward us with her eyes facing in different directions.
ATRI: Hmph!
ATRI stands over her handiwork for moment with her hands on her hips, before trotting over to me.
ATRI: Are you all right, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: Y-Yeah… She grazed me with the knife, but it’s just a flesh wound.
ATRI: You’re bleeding! We’re got to take care of that!
Natsuki: Listen, I’m fine.
There’s a decent amount of blood, but the wound itself isn’t deep.
A crowd of rubberneckers starts to form around us.
ATRI glares at Catherine.
ATRI: How was that? Like getting a little taste of my special moves? You haven’t seen anything yet.
ATRI: If I really wanted to, I could do this to you…
She picks up the knife.
ATRI: Grrrrrr…
Holding it lightly between her fingers, the blade starts to bend like rubber.
The assembled crowd “oooh”s appreciatively.
ATRI tosses the mangled blade on the ground in front of Catherine.
With a whimper, she grabs it, and springs to her feet.
Catherine: I-I’ll be back, you daman brats!
Fighting through the laughing horde, she runs off.
ATRI: Heh! There we are, another threat to your life eliminated. Aren’t I special? C’mon, praise me, praise me! ♪
Natsuki: Err, right…
She leans in, and, still dumbstruck, I instinctively reach out to pat her head.
Her hair is so soft and delicate in my fingers…
ATRI: Hehe, see how helpful I can be?
Natsuki: ATRI, you…
ATRI: Hmm?
Natsuki: …Nothing.
She harmed a human.
No normal robot could do that.
Natsuki: (She did say she was a military robot…)
That was a lie, though-she admitted it herself. According to her serial number, she’s a completely normal, consumer market model.
…Assuming that’s not some kind of camouflage?
Natsuki: (Everything I know about robots is just what I’ve read in books…)
Maybe depending on their type, there are some Humanoids that are able to attack others to prevent their master coming to harm.
ATRI: Hehe, you really praised me! Oh, it is all right for me to be happy about this, isn’t it?
Natsuki: Yeah, I suppose so.
ATRI grins up at me.
ATRI: Oh, we need to take care of your arm too!
ATRI: Hmm, well…
ATRI: Ah, there’s a drug store!
She grabs me by the hand, and leads me through the market.
Ririka: Aaah, it’s the Hitman!
The first thing Ririka does when I walk into the classroom is point at me. Someone should teach this little shit some manners.
ATRI: Grr! Another enemy combatant!?
Ririka: Heh, you wanna go at it, Henchman!?
ATRI: Bring it on!
Natsuki: Stop it, ATRI. No killing kids. Not today, at least.
ATRI: …Understood. Tsk, I suppose you get to live another day.
Ririka: Grr, you damn dirty Henchman…
The two of them square up to each other like children playfighting. But if ATRI tried what she did to Catherine to Ririka, she’d…
Natsuki: (I shouldn’t think about that…)
Minamo: Morning, Natsu-kun. Morning, ATRI-chan!
ATRI: Good morning, Minamo.
ATRI: Thank you for the wonderful panties. I think Natsuki-kun really likes them.
Minamo: He… What?
Natsuki: Shut up, together. Morning, Minamo.
Minamo: Hehe, so you came again.
Ririka: Minamo-chan, don’t go near him! He’s going to confess his undying love to you!
Minamo: He… What!? H-He wouldn’t do that!
Ririka: Don’t worry, I’ll protect you!
Minamo: Come on, don’t be silly. Get back to your seat. Home room’s about to start.
The lineup in the classroom is exactly the same as yesterday-just us, the little kids, and Ryuuji.
The latter isn’t asleep today, but he is gazing languidly out of the window.
Ryuuji: Hmph…
He glances over for just a moment, before going back to seemingly more important matters. Well, no surprise there.
Minamo: So, before we start studying today, we’re going to hold a class meeting.
Minamo: We need to discuss the school shutting down.
Minamo: I’m sure you all know this already, but it’s likely that this school will be shutting down soon.
Minamo: We just have too few students, and no teacher.
Minamo: So I wanted to ask if anyone here had any ideas as to how we could stop this.
Ririka: Me, me!
Minamo: Yes, Ririka?
Ririka: Tsuruta-san could be our teacher?
Natsuki: Who’s that?
Minamo: He runs the candy shop in the market. He knows a lot of things, and he’s always fun to listen to.
Ririka: He knows everything about everything!
Natsuki: Has he got a teaching license? If he doesn’t, he’s not going to be able to help.
Ririka; …
Ririka freezes up.
Ririka: Tao Ching Lai Sen… What’s that?
Ryuuji: C’mon, man. You didn’t have to get that serious with her.
Ryuuji grumbles from the corner.
Natsuki: Sorry. Forget I said anything.
Minamo: But he’s right. Tsuruta-san’s just a smart old man, not a real teacher.
Minamo: I guess I’ll have to keep studying, and earn a license myself.
Minamo clenches her first resolutely.
Natsuki: You know how long that would take, right? By the time you’ve been to university and come back, this place will be long gone.
Beside, even if she did come back, the current class would have already graduated. And if this place has got any new students by then, I don’t think it’d be in any real trouble anyway.
Minamo: Gah, I though it might be tough…
Ryuyji: You’re real good at shooting people down, but you got any actual ideas over there?
Natsuki: Me? How about you try giving it a think. I only arrived here yesterday.
And then only because ATRI twisted my arm.
Ryuuji: I told you, this place can go to hell, for all I care.
Natsuki: (And yet here you are, staring out of the window…)
I’m not quite sure I get this guy.
Minamo: How about you, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: Nothing in this world is eternal. All is fleeting. One should not lament its disappearance.
ATRI: The important thing is how you spend the time before the end… Or something.
Minamo: How you spend the time before the end’…
Minamo seems thrown off by ATRI’s unexpectedly… sagacious answer.
ATRI: By which I mean, let’s get down to studying! I want to start learning.
Minamo: Err, okay… Let’s begin.
There’s no point wrestling with a problem that has no solution, after all.
The class meeting ends as suddenly as it started.
Minamo rings the handbell.
Minamo: Okay, break time. We’ll start class properly in ten minutes.
Ririka: Let’s go out and play.
The little kids hurriedly scurry out of the classroom.
Where do they actually go to play? The whole place is underwater.
Ryuuji: Ugh, I’m beat.
Ryuuji groans with theatrical loudness, and flops out onto the desk, asleep.
Minamo: Okay, we’re starting. Latecomers get cleaning duty, remember!
Minamo sticks her hand out of the door and rings the bell, and the children scramble back into the classroom.
Child B: Safe!
Child C: Hahh, hahh, I’m in!
Ririka: Ahh, wait!
Ririka comes flying through the doorway.
Ririka: I made it, didn’t I? Don’t I, Minamo-chan!?
Minamo: Juuust about. ♪ Okay, everything sit down.
Ririka: Phew, that was a close one…
I get the feeling she was saved by the Minamo-bell there.
Minamo: So, today’s lesson will be a science lesson. And what’s more, we’ve got very special teacher.
Ririka: A special teacher? Who!?
Minamo: Ohoho… It’s Natsu-kun!
Ririka: That guy!?
Natsuki: Don’t look so disappointed. It hurts…
I walk up to the front of the class, dragging ATRI with me.
Minamo: Okay then, the floor’s yours.
Natsuki: So, yesterday, a certain someone said something that caught my interest. “What’s the point of studying if you’re not gong to university?”
Ryuuji: …
Natsuki: I’m going to show you why that’s wrong.
I lay out the “ingredients” I bought at the market on the teacher’s table.
Child B: …A lightbulb?
Child C: What are these red and blue wires?
Ririka: I get it! We’re going to make a bomb!
Natsuki: What kind of school do you think this is, a terrorist training-camp?
There’s a lightbulb, some wires, and a motor.
Natsuki: Today, we’re going to use these…
I start to draw something out on the blackboard.
Natsuki: To make electricity. In order words, a generator.
Minamo: A generator? You can make that kind of thing?
Natsuki: Well, we don’t have electricity in this town, do we? But if we learn how, we can make it ourselves.
Natsuki: A basic generator is simple. We’re just going to use some principles that you’ll find in any textbook.
Minamo: Ohh…
Natsuki: So, let’s do a little experiment.
Child B: Ehh, a science experiment?
Child C: That sounds super hard…
Natsuki: First, I’ll need you guys to assemble some parts. What we’ve got here won’t be enough for a generator. I want you to split up and find everything we need.
I start to sketch out the parts we’re looking for on the board.
Although they’re all simple parts, it would be hard to guess exactly what we’re going to  do with them.
Natsuki: You should be able to find them around the school. Okay, get searching.
Ririka: Ooh, it’s like a treasure hunt! This sound fun!
Child B: Let’s go!
Child C: Ah, wait for me!
The three young ones rush out of the door.
ATRI: Let’s go too, Natsuki-san. My robot pride couldn’t stand losing to those children!
Natsuki: Okay, okay, stop pulling me.
Minamo: Hehe, this is going to be fun. ♪
Ryuuji: …
The three of us head downstairs.
Natsuki: It’s pretty amazing, really. You wouldn’t think this place could still be a school.
The second floor is inundated with water, running through the corridors like rivers.
ATRI: Oh, a fish!
Little fish swim through the gaps between ATRI’s bare feet, her loafers safely left on the stairs.
Minamo: At high tide, the sea fills this corridor up. I keep telling the little ones this place is dangerous, but they just love playing here.
Ah, so this is where they ran off to during the last break.
Natsuki: Seems like we’ve got more classrooms than we could ever need, though.
Minamo: In the past, there were enough students to fill up the whole school.
The would have been quite some time ago, before the great sea rise-before ATRI was constructed, even.
Compared to the peak of humanity’s population, schools everywhere have dramatically fewer students now.
Ririka: Let’s look over there!
The children go splashing ahead of us through the water.
Minamo: Hey, no running in the corridors. You’ll fall over!
Ririka: You’re the only one that does that, Minamo-chan!
Minamo: What-Waah!
As she raises her hand in protest, she loses her footing.
I barely manage to grab hold of her and prop her up.
Minamo: Phew, that was close. Thanks, Natsu-kun.
Natsuki: Jeez, it’s just like the kid said.
Minamo: Hehe, sorry for being clumsy.
ATRI: Hmm… You’re going all red, Minamo, Do you…?
Minamo: Ah, umm…
ATRI: …Have a cold?
Natsuki: Huh, do you?
Minamo: A-Ah, umm, I might, yeah, *cough* *cough*…
I press the back of my hand to her forehead.
Minamo: Aaahn! N-Natsu-kun!?
Natsuki: Hmm, you are a little hot. A summer cold’s never a good thing. You should rest up a little.
Minamo: I-I’m fine…
Minamo: (Ahh, he’s so nice.)
After half an hour of searching, everyone returns to the classroom.
Natsuki: So, let’s see what you’ve got.
I start to examine the assembled materials with the eye of a pirate captain looking over some plundered booty.
Child B: Look at this stuff I found!
Child C: Mine too!
The children are fizzing with energy, proudly holding out the things they’ve gathered.
Minamo: What did you find, Ririka?
Ririka: Hehehe, this!
For a second, she darts out of the classroom…
And returns pushing a bicycle.
Ririka: I’ve hit the jackpot!
Child B: Did you even listen to what the Hitman wanted you to get?
Child C: It’s not just a competition to find the biggest thing!
Ririka: Whaaat?
ATRI: Heh, typical dumb kid. So far below my level.
Minamo: Where did you find that thing?
Ririka: It got washed up behind the school the other day, so I kept it. Not that I can actually ride a bike.
Natsuki: Hmm, we might be able to use this…
I closely examine the slightly rusty frame.
Ririka: Really?
Natsuki: We won’t really know unless we disassemble it, but this might be just what we need.
Natsuki: You’ve done well, everyone. Let’s divide these up between you all.
Everyone grins contentedly.
Natsuki: So, we’re going to use these to make a wind turbine.
Natsuki: Do any of you know how generators work?
Minamo: I do!
Minamo sticks her hand up and waves it eagerly.
Minamo: I read about this a while ago. Err, so…
Minamo: If you move a magnet near to a coil of wire, it creates an electric current. It’s called, umm, ‘electromagnetic induction,’ I think.
Natsuki: Exactly
Ririka: Oooh, you’re so smart, Minamo-chan!
Minamo: Hehe, yay!
Jeez, she’s celebrating like she’s one of the little kids.
Natsuki: If you rotate a magnet inside a coil, you can make a pretty efficient source of electricity.
Natsuki: You just need to have a way to keep the magnet spinning, and a way of extracting the power from the system.
The motor, essentially the heart of a generator, would be a little beyond some kids to make, hence why I bought one at the junk shop.
We’re just going to make a device that will make it spin.
I start to sketch out a blueprint on the blackboard of how we’re going to assemble our parts.
To tell the truth, I wasn’t sure at all that we’d find exactly what we needed.
But I though it might make the kids more enthusiastic if they were making something with items that they found themselves.
Natsuki: So, that’s how we’re going to make it.
Ririka: Time to get to work!
Child B: Let’s do this, Ririka.
Chills C: How do we take the wheel off of the bike, though?
Natsuki: ATRI, give them a hand.
ATRI: Roger.
ATRI’s strength is enough that she’s able to effortlessly tear the bike into pieces.
Ririka: W-Whoa…
Child B: Wow, she really is fit to be the Hitman’s henchman…
Child C: I’m sorry for ever doubting you…
ATRI: Hehehe, burn that image into your mind, brats. That’s how high-performance I am!
After what seems less like a disassembly and more like an evisceration, we get to work building our windmill.
The whole time, Ryuuji is sitting bored in the corner of the room.
Minamo: Hey, Ryuu-chan, come help. You’re good at this kind of stuff, aren’t you?
Ryuuji: Seriously? Not a chance. I’m not following that guy’s orders all day.
Ryuuji: …And if I help, the squirts won’t have anything to do.
Minamo: Ah, good point. This is your actual job outside of school, after all.
Ririka: This bit’s finished!
Child B: Ugh, you’ve done it all messy.
Child C: Pass it here, I’ll fix it.
The children are clumsily throwing the parts together, but they’re just about making something that might work.
I sit back, and merely offer directions.
There’s not much else to do. I’m in the middle of a wide yawn when they shout over to me.
Ririka: We’re finished, Mr.Hitman!
Natsuki: Okay, let me see.
Well… I can’t say it’s perfect, but it’s good enough.
There’s a set of robots constructed from a bicycle wheel and “blades” made from fabric from an umbrella, a stand to keep it vertical, and a motor attached to an axle running through the wheel’s center…
It may look like a pile of trash, but it has all the ingredients of a real wind turbine.
Natsuki: It’s not the prettiest machine in the world, but still…
The wheel creaks as I try to turn it. I give it a little oiling.
Natsuki: Right, let’s get this thing up on the roof.
There’s a perfect breeze blowing outside.
I attach wires to the motor’s outputs, and hook them up to a lightbulb.
It’s a particularly old-fashioned incandescent model, the kind that’s practically unused today. They were being sold for close to nothing at the junk shop.
I cover it with a box with a single pinhole cut into it.
Natsuki: Okay, time to start our experiment.
The turbine’s blades pick up the wind, and slowly it starts to turn.
After a moment…
Ririka: Ah, it lit up!
Child B: It did? Let me see… Wow, it’s really on!
Child C: …
The children take turns peering into the hole, while I try adjusting the angle of the windmill.
Ririka: It’s really lit up! We’ve got electricity! Wow!
Child B: It’s not much, though.
Child C: …Is that all it can do?
They all look up at me curiously.
Child B: Can’t you, like, make it brighter?
Child C: Can you make the fan in the classroom move?
Natsuki: This is just an experiment for now. I’m just showing you how the stuff in your textbooks can actually be useful.
For a tiny generator like this, one lightbulb is about all it can manage.
Child B: This isn’t useful at all, though…
Child C: Yeah…
Ririka: …
Ririka: Mr.Hitman, can we read books at night with this? Or light the way to the toilet?
Natsuki: If we don’t make this thing more efficient, it probably won’t be enough for any of that.
Ririka: Aww…
Ririka hangs her head.
All of the energy that the kid had before has completely vanished in an instant.
Natsuki: Sorry. I guess it isn’t useful after all… Studying really is pointless.
With downcast expressions all around, the experiment comes to a close.
The gentle lilt of the radio floats on the shoreline waves.
I sit bathed in the light leaking from the ship’s windows, enjoying the evening coolness.
ATRI: Ah, I get it now!
Sitting next to me, ATRI suddenly cries out.
ATRI: That’s the same thing we made in class!
She points with triumph at the little rotor trundling in the gentle breeze.
ATRI: That’s what’s making electricity for the ship!
Natsuki: Exactly. What we made earlier was a much more simple design, though.
The ship’s generator has a built-in weather vane, which automatically tilts the robots to the most optimal angle to catch the wind.
It was made by my grandmother to aid with her oceanographical field work. She must have wanted to be able to use electricity no matter how far out to sea she was.
ATRI: Everyone smiled when that bulb turned on earlier.
ATRI: A smile is a symbol of happiness, isn’t it? So everyone was happy then.
Natsuki: Yeah, if only for a moment.
The less said about afterwards, the better.
ATRI: You did a good thing, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Really now? All I did was disappoint them.
ATRI: Isn’t making someone happy, if even for just a moment, a good thing?
ATRI peers up at me with an inquisitive look.
Natsuki: I’m hungry. Let’s get dinner.
I simply stand and walk towards the door.
ATRI: Waaaaaaahhh!
Natsuki: Huh!? What’s wrong!?
ATRI: I don’t… I don’t have my shoes!
She’s right. She’s completely barefoot.
ATRI: Umm, err… Ah, I know! I left them at school!
I remember now-she took them off before we waded through the second floor hall earlier.
She’s been barefoot ever since.
Natsuki: (I didn’t realize at all…)
I was so absorbed in my own sadness about disappointing everyone that I didn’t think of her at all.
I feel my cheeks burning red. I was really so upset over a tiny little failure…
ATRI: Umm, Natsuki-san, can we go back to get them?
Natsuki: You can get them tomorrow, right?
It’s no like the school’s going to sink overnight.
ATRI: But you bought those for me, Nastuki-san. If I lost them, I’d…
I want to yell at her not to lose them in the first place, but I mange to bite my tongue. I  didn’t notice that she wasn’t wearing them myself, after all.
Natsuki: Okay, okay. Don’t make that face.
ATRI: Thank you so much, Natsuki-san!
The two of us trudge all the way back to the school.
The building is devoid of all light. It looks like just another part of the landscape, a black monolith in the night.
The only sound is the waves crashing against its concrete walls.
Natsuki: I can’t see anything at all.
ATRI: Leave this to me. Switching cyber-eyes into high-sensitivity mode.
ATRI pulls us over to the school in the boat. There’s a long rope hung between the shore and the makeshift pier, letting us make the crossing without padding.
She helps me out, and we enter the building.
Being out here in this uncanny concrete edifice would usually be creepy, but so little moonlight is penetrating the seafoam-clouded windows that it’s too gloomy to feel the trill of the unusual.
The darkness is so overwhelming that I feel my chest tighten.
Natsuki: You’re still there, aren’t you, ATRI?
ATRI: Hmm? Yes, I’m here.
She tightens her grip on my hand.
The pressure lifts from my chest ever so lightly.
Natsuki: It’s pitch black. I can’t see anything.
ATRI: Just keep holding my hand, and I’ll lead the way.
Natsuki: I’m counting on you.
ATRI: Hehe, you’re se easy to read, Natsuki-san. It’s cute.
I grind my teeth, but I’m in no position to start chewing her out right now.
ATRI: C’mon, this. Oh, watch your step.
Natsuki: Bwuh!?
My toe stubs against a piece of fallen debris, and ATRI has to grab hold of me to stop me from falling.
ATRI: Ooops! Are you okay?
Natsuki: You could have said that a little quicker, you idiot…
ATRI: Ohh, that was a surprisingly gentle insult for you!
Natsuki: …Look, I’m not good with the dark. I really am counting on you here, ATRI.
ATRI: Aww yes, I love it when you reply on me! Don’t you worry, leave this all to me!
I can’t help but be a little uneasy, regardless, or potentially because of how enthusiastic she is. But least I can count on her to be cheerful, regardless of the reality of the situation.
She steadily leads me to our usual classroom.
Natsuki: So, are they here?
ATRI: I can’t see them. That’s odd…
Natsuki: Are you sure you left them here? Try to remember back.
ATRI: Hmm… Ah, they might be on the roof!
We make our way up the stairs.
The roof is shining pale blue in the moonlight, significantly less gloomy than inside.
ATRI: Natsuki-san, wait.
Natsuki: What’s up?
ATRI: Someone’s there.
Natsuki: What!?
Looking over at where ATRI is pointing, I notice a tiny red glow.
And there, dimly lit by it, is a human figure.
ATRI: Wait here…
ATRI starts to sneak toward it, her bare feet complete silent.
But before ATRI reaches it, a flicker of light illuminates the figure’s face.
Natsuki: Ririka?
The light is coming from the turbine we made in class.
Ririka: Ahh, it went out again! C’mon, spin…
The wind is so gentle tonight that the windmill isn’t turning at all.
Ririka is turning the bicycle wheel with her hand.
Each time she does, the lightbulb fizzles into life.
It seems like she’s been reading a book by that dim glow, staring at it with furious intensity. She’s so engrossed in her attempt to keep going that she doesn’t notice us at all.
ATRI: Aaaand…
Ririka: Wh-Whoa, what!?
ATRI: Got you! Get ready for a world of pain!
Ririka: Wahh, a ghost! Noo, don’t eat me!
Ririka panics, flapping her arms around and raining slaps down on ATRI’s face.
ATRI: Ow! Stop that! Ow,ow,ow!
Ririka: I’ll be good from now on, I swear! Daddy! Mommy!
Natsuki: Calm down, kid. It’s us.
Ririka: Huh!? Th-The Hitman!?
Ririka: So you’re finally decided to kill me? Grr, don’t think I’m just gonna roll over and die!
The same flurry of blows batters my own head.
Natsuki: I said to calm down! We just came here to get something ATRI forgot! Also, I’m not an assassin!
Natsuki: What are you doing out here so late, anyway?
Ririka: This is my house!
Natsuki: What? You live at the school?
Ririka: Yep.
Natsuki: Don’t you have a mom and dad? Any other family?
Ririka: Nope.
She shakes her head in a matter-of-face fashion.
Ririka: This thing’s really amazing though, Hitman! You just have to spin it a bit and it lights up!
Natsuki: Well, it’s meant to be the wind turning it…
Possibly due to the slipshod construction, it doesn’t seem like the blades will ever spin without a pretty strong breeze.
Natsuki: …Hmm? It looks a little different from earlier. Did you do something to it?
Has she tried to improve it?
Ririka: Yeah. I tried following the instructions in this book, but it didn’t really work… So I’m just using my hands now.
I glance at the book. In the dim light, I can just about make it out as a textbook on renewable energy.
Natsuki: You’re really reading something this advanced? Where did you even get this?
Ririka: From the library. There’s loads of books there.
Ririka: But it’s so hard, I don’t really get it at all. Can you teach me, Mr. Himan?
Natsuki: The name’s Natsuki. What don’t you understand?
Ririka: Umm, well, this bit, What does it mean when it says electricity becomes ‘potential energy’? What’s that?
Natsuki: Well, ‘potential energy’ is the energy something has when it’s lifted up in the air, which becomes ‘kinetic energy’ when it falls.
I take the thick book Ririka has been reading from her hands.
Natsuki: Hold out your hands.
She hesitantly does as I say, and I drop the book down for her to catch it.
She tilts her head quizzically as it falls into her hands.
I take it from her again, and drop it once more, this time from a little higher.
It falls into her hands with a heavy thud.
Her face lights up with understanding as she feels the sensation in her fingers.
Natsuki: The heavier the object and the higher you drop it from, the more potential it has.
Natsuki: You can convert electricity into potential energy in order to store it.
Natsuki: For example, you could use spare electricity from a wind turbine to pump water up high, store it, and then release it to drive a water wheel even when there’s no wind to drive your windmill-turning the potential energy back into electricity.
Ririka: Hmm, I see…
Ririka listens intently to my explanation. It seems like it’s getting through to her.
As she learns more and more, she starts asking questions on all kinds of topics.
The impromptu lesson gets more and more in-depth.
Ririka: So you mean that a water wheel can make loads more electricity than a windmill? That means we could make a really bright light if we had one of those, right?
Natsuki: It’s true that it would be more efficient, but that doesn’t mean it’s the solution to everything. It would need to be placed somewhere where there’s a good amount of water, so if you don’t have somewhere suitable…
Ririka: Hmm, I see… We’ve got plenty of water here though, haven’t we?
Natsuki: Do you know what that water’s got to be doing to make a water wheel move, though?
She bites her lip and thinks.
Ririka: It’s got to be flowing somewhere…?
Natsuki: Exactly. You need a clear, uninterrupted running stream, in one direction. Something like a river, or an aqueduct.
No matter how much water we have around here, its flows are so unpredictable that’s not possible to practically dam it off.
Ririka: So, why can’t we, like, lift some water up high?
Natsuki: If we could create a flow from a high place like that, we could get an efficient source of power. But how do you think we’d lift the water?
Natsuki: In order to get the water high enough to then make it flow down, we’d have to expend more energy than we’d eventually make.
Ririka: That’s, umm, the ‘law of conservation of energy,’ right?
Natsuki: Oh, you’ve already been taught about that?
Ririka: No, I read it in this book.
She answers immediately.
Ririka; So if we wanted to use water power, we’d either need to make things flow better around here, or find a way to get water up high… This sounds kinda tough.
Natsuki: Ririka…
Ririka: Hmm?
Natsuki: You were trying to read by this light, right? What kind of books do you usually read?
Ririka: Well, the stuff in the library. I just pick a shelf and start reading everything along it.
Ririka: When the moon’s bright, I can read them here.
Natsuki: …You know, I didn’t have you pinned for a smart kid, given what an annoying bra-Err, lively sprite you are.
Ririka: I get told that a lot…
Now that I think about it, I did notice that she was unusually quick to pick up what we were learning in class.
I had such a strong preconception of her as just a loud little brat that I didn’t think too much of it.
Natsuki: (She’s not just smart, either. She’s the curious type too, and naturally good at lateral thinking.)
Ririka: Umm, Mr. Hitman?
Natsuki: Natsuki. The name’s Natsuki.
Ririka: Is studying really pointless?
Natsuki: Huh…?
Ririka: You said it yourself, earlier? It is pointless after all.
Natsuki: Do you want to study more?
Ririka: Yeah! Today’s class was, well, it was kinda exhausting… But it was really fun, Mr. Hit-err, Mr. Natsuki!
Ririka: I want to learn about loads of other stuff too!
She smiles widely, her eyes glimmering in the moonlight, full to the brim with childlike wonder.
I remember a time when I still had this kind of pure curiosity in me.
Before I entered The Academy… Long before that, even. Before that tunnel collapsed on us, and I lost everything.
Natsuki: So that’s why you’re reading all these difficult books.
Ririka: Yeah, I’ve got nothing else to do at night. It’s all dark, and I’m the only one here.
Ririka: When the moon’s bright, I can just about read a book. I just wish we could get more lights here.
She spins the windmill and sighs.
A mellow, reddish glow illuminates her wistful smile.
Natsuki: Whatever you want to do in the future is up to you. But in order to enjoy that freedom, you need to have the ability to make choices.
Natsuki: And studying can help increase the amount of choice you have.
Ririka: Really? Thanks!
She smiles widely as she spins the windmill, turning her attentions back to the book.
Gazing down at that contented little face, I remember something my father told me once.
“No one can be a scholar without one thing: Curiosity.”
The Academy claims to be our best hope for finding the people who will save the earth.
But who knows if anybody there can really do that?
Maybe no one can save it. Or maybe it’ll be saved by some curious genius, completely unrelated to The Academy.
Natsuki: (Maybe it’ll even be this kid…)
As I peer over her shoulder, her hands suddenly stop.
Natsuki: What’s up?
Ririka: …I need to pee.
I find myself waiting outside the girl’s toilets in the inky blackness.
My eyes have grown somewhat accustomed to the darkness, and now I can at least make out vague shapes around me.
Ririka’s Voice: You’ll definitely, definitely wait for me there, right? Don’t go anywhere!
Natsuki: I get it, I get it. Hurry up.
Natsuki: Honestly, I thought you were supposed to be a big, clever girl, and you’re too scared to go to the toilet at night?
ATRI: She’s just like you, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Hey, when did I ever say I’m scared to take a pee?
ATRI: Even if you’re fine with using the toilet, if I’m not there to sleep with you you get all panicky.
Ririka’s Voice: Really?
Natsuki: Shut your faces, both of you!
Ririka’s Voice: Gah, that made it stop coming out…
This might take a while.
Ririka: Phew…
Natsuki: Huh, so you’ve got running water here, but not electricity?
Ririka: Yep. I’ve got a shower too.
Natsuki: Really?
Ririka: It’s too dark to use it at night, though.
Natsuki: …
I do have a shower on my ship too.
But powering the water pump is so energy-intensive that I don’t use it that often.
Normally I go to a bath house in town, but it’s expensive enough that I can only afford to go a couple of times a week.
I hear an unmistakable gurgle
Ririka: Ahh, I’m so hungry!
Natsuki: Where do you actually get your food?
Ririka: Well, Minamo-chan and Ryuu-chan-ah! There he is! Ryuu-chan!
His muscular frame appears at the door.
Ryuuji: Yo. Brought your dinner.
Ririka: Ooh, this is just what I needed!
Ryuuji: Sweet, Chow down, kid.
A famished Ririka practically dives into the food.
ATRI: That looks delicious… *slurp*!
Ririka: Wanna eat some too, Henchman?
ATRI: Can I!?
Natsuki: Hey, no wasting food. You don’t even need it.
ATRI: Tch… You’re such a robophobe sometimes, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Yeah, yeah. Shut up. You can have something when we get home.
Ririka: Aren’t you lucky, Henchman?
ATRI: Yep! ♪
Ririka chomps her way through all of the food in a flash. Just how hungry was she?
Ririka: Yum, that was great! Thanks again, Ryuu-chan.
Ryuuji: No problem. You need all of that food it you want to grow up big and strong.
Ririka: You bet! I’ll be the strongest!
Ryuuji returns the plastic containers to his bag, and stands up to leave.
As he walks out of the door, he glances back at me.
Ryuuji: …
He leaves without a word.
Natsuki: He didn’t seem too surprised to find us here.
ATRI: Hmm? It looked like he was to me.
Natsuki: Really? I didn’t get that impression at all.
ATRI: But when he first arrived and saw us talking on the roof, he looked like he’d seen a ghost.
Natsuki: …Wait, on the roof? He wasn’t here then.
ATRI: He was. He turned up when you were talking about books. He tried to hide, but nothing escapes there high-sensitivity cyber-eyes of mine.
High-performance in all the wrong places, as always.
Natsuki: Huh, I see…
I suppose he didn’t want us to see him feeding her. Maybe he’s embarrassed?
Natsuki: ATRI, did you find your shoes?
ATRI: Yes!
She proudly show me her feet again, not that I can see them properly in this darkness.
Natsuki: Right, in that case, let’s go.
Ririka: Oh, you’re going? You could sleep over…
Natsuki: Sorry kid, but I’ve not eaten yet. Plus, there’s something I need to do when I get back.
Ririka: …
Ririka: …To be honest, I hate the dark.
Ririka: When I was little, I always slept with a little lightbulb on, because my mommy told me to.
Ririka: The thing you made today was a lot like that.
It must have been a little old filament bulb, the kind that gives off that same warm, gentle light.
Ririka: If I could have a light like that on every night, it would be like sleeping with Mommy again…
On a night as quiet as this, a simple windmill make by a few kids probably won’t be able to light a single bulb.
I don’t think she’s going to get her wish tonight.
Ririka’s cheerful voice calls out behind us as we leave.
Ririka: See you tomorrow!
Natsuki: Right.
ATRI: Goodbyeeeeee!
ATRI: Hey, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Natsuki-saaaaaaan.
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: Aren’t you going to sleep yet?
Ever since we got back, I’ve been sat hunched over my desk.
ATRI: We’ve not even had dinner. I though you said you were going to let me have something…
Natsuki: Now that you mention it, I am a little puckish.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Don’t just say that and immediately go back to work!
ATRI: What are you doing? You’re focusing so hard it’s like you’re doing brain surgery or something…
ATRI: Gah, the power went out.
The room is plunged into darkness.
Natsuki: Yeah, there’s no wind tonight.
ATRI: ….Which means it’s one of those nights when I’m going to have to spoil you like a big old baby, aren’t I? You lucky boy! C’mere!
She slaps her naked belly in… encouragement? I have no idea what she’s thinking. But that’s by the by right now.
Natsuki: ATRI, I need your help with something.
ATRI: Why of course! You need to hug me to sleep, don’t you? Oh, Natsuki-san, you’re so cute!
Natsuki: Go outside and spin the wind turbine around for me, will you?
ATRI: What, by hand!?
ATRI: O-Okay… I hope I can reach.
ATRI: Ah, got it!
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Hey, are you just working again!?
Natsuki: Hmm, it has to be a water turbine, surely? Looking at it efficiency-wise…
ATRI: Tsk, you shouldn’t overwork yourself, Natsuki-san. You humans are fragile, if you don’t get any sleep you’ll end up breaking down.
Natsuki: …
Her words pass in one ear and out of the other. I’m too lost in concentration.
ATRI: Aww… Guess I’ll just sit here and write my logs.
She takes out the notebook and pen we bought this morning, and stars to write.
For most of the night, the cabin is filled with nothing but the soft scratching sound of pen on paper.
ATRI: Mmn… Zzz… Gwood… Hahhhn, mawninggg, Natshuki-shan…
ATRI: …Mmm?
Natsuki: …
ATRI: You’re… still writing?
ATRI: Hey, Natsuki-san. You haven’t been up doing that all night, have you?
Natsuki: …Oh, ATRI. What’s up?
ATRI: What do you mean, ‘What’s up’!? I’m so surprised to see you up that I’m not even my usual low-voltage morning self! I’m wide awake!
Natsuki: Isn’t that a good thing?
ATRI: It’s great! I feel amazing!
ATRI: But why haven’t you been to bed?
Natsuki: Huh…? Oh, it’s morning already. Ahh, I get it. I completely forgot to sleep.
ATRI: How does a person ‘forget’ to sleep? It’s supposed to be one of the three big things humans need, alongside nutrition and… Y’know…
Natsuki: I’m used to staying up all night from my time at The Academy. The first time you do it to for a paper or something it’s tough, but eventually you start getting a weird kind of high from it.
ATRI: Hahh… I’m worried about you, Natsuki-san. Humans aren’t as durable as us Humanoids…
ATRI: What have you been doing all this time, anyway?
Natsuki: Just a little something. You’ll see when the time comes.
Natsuki: Anyway, let’s get going to school. I’ve got some surveying to do.
Minamo: ATRI-chan? Where’s Natsu-kun?
ATRI: He said he wanted to be left alone downstairs.
Minamo: Oh, he didn’t want you to go too?
ATRI: He said that if I went with him, I’d forget my shoes again…
ATRI: …Which is pretty rude. He should know that my learning faculties mean I’m not gonna lose them a second time.
Minamo: What’s he doing down there?
ATRI: I don’t know. He’s probably checking out something related to this thing he drew yesterday.
Minamo: Are these… blueprints?
ATRI: Yes, he stayed up all night sketching them.
Minamo: Huh…
Ryuuji: …
Natsuki: Hmm, the water’s at about shin level right now, but it should get up to about waist level at high tide.
Natsuki: When the kids are particularly high, the waves can make it over the windows, but otherwise they come flooding in up the stairs, and then recede the same way at low tide.
Natsuki: There’s more than enough water here, but the flow isn’t constant…
I awaken to the sound of a handbell.
Minamo: Right, that’s it for today, everyone. Natsu-kun, you were asleep through the whole class.
Natsuki: Sorry about that. I was up all night.
Minamo: Oh, it’s fine, completely!
Natsuki: …Huh?
Minamo looks bizarrely cheerful. Off-putting so, in fact.
I fetch out my blueprints from inside my desk.
Natsuki: Now, what am I going to do about this?
I have a plan and location in mind.
Natsuki: (But the engineering involved might be beyond me.)
No matter how perfect my blueprints are, it might just be impossible for us kids to realize my vision.
Even with everyone’s help, this isn’t something we could really manage.
I could hire a professional, but where would I get the money for that?
Ryuuji: Hey, new guy.
Natsuki: …Are you taking to me?
I turn around, and Ryuuji is there glaring at me.
Ryuuji: I wanna word with you. Come with me.
I there up slightly in the face of that baleful scowl, but not waiting to seem intimidated, I respond in kind.
Natsuki: Right.
He takes me down to one of the empty classrooms on the second floor.
Right now, the tide is out, and the floor is dry.
Natsuki: So, what do you want from me… all alone in a place like this?
I don’t really need to ask. This kind of thing happened a lot at The Academy.
Whenever anyone stepped out of line or was starting looking too big for their boots, someone would find a way to strip them of those illusions.
There, though, it was never through the obvious kind of kicking I can feel approaching now. Academy students have much more… sinister means.
Ryuuji: I know what you’re planning. I wanna help.
Natsuki: …Wha-?
Ryuuji: You wanna make a water turbine, right? I saw the plans.
Natsuki: …You understood those?
Ryuuji: Dude, my family’s in the construction biz. We’re not exactly big-shots, but I’ve been helping out since I was a kid. I know a bit about making stuff.
I wouldn’t have expected this rough-looking wastrel to have any experience in that kind of field. I can’t quite believe it, but…
Natsuki: That’s great!
Before I know it, I find myself shaking him rigorously by the hand.
Ryuuji: O-Okay…
Ryuuji recoils ever so slightly. That just makes me want to grip his hand even harder. Hell, I could hug him right now.
He might just be the thing I need to make my plans something more than simply paper and ink.
Natsuki: For this kind of small-scale power generator, water is going to be the most efficient medium. It’s relatively simple in theory, and it’s not like we’re short of water around here.
Natsuki: But we’ve got a problem-flow. If we can’t create a place with a stable, continuous in one direction, we’re not going to get any power.
Unlike my weather vane, making a turbine adjust to an unstable flow just isn’t practical.
Natsuki: So what I’ve been thinking is-
Ryuuji: We knock a hole through the floor.
Natsuki: Exactly!
I whack him on the shoulder exuberantly.
Ryuuji: Ow!
Natsuki: Right, listen up…
ATRI: Hmmm, hmmm… Where’s Natsuki-san got to?
Minamo: Oh? He was sleeping on his desk until just a moment ago.
ATRI: Gah, Natsuki-saaan…
Ririka: G-Guys, help! Mr. Natsuki and Ryuuji-chan are fighting!
Minamo: Fighting!?
Ririka: They’re hitting each other, and shouting…
ATRI: Argh!
Minamo: A-ATRI-chan!?
Natsuki: …So, do you think it’s possible?
Ryuuji: Damming the corridor should be possible, but I can’t say for sure about the turbine without giving the plans a proper look over.
Natsuki: We can adjust the blueprints as we go, depending on what materials we can get and what you think we can realistically manage construction-wise. If you’d like, you could come over to my ship-
ATRI: No bullying Natsuki-san!
Natsuki: ATRI!?
ATRI: Hurt him, and you’re getting a rocket punch right in the kisser!
Behind a furious ATRI, Minamo and the kids follow along curiously.
Child B: So, who’s winning?
Ririka: Stop, Ryuu-chan! Mr. Natsuki might look a bit grumpy, but he’s actually kinda a good guy! Maybe!
Minamo: No fighting in the school!
Ryuuji: The hell are you guys talking about?
ATRI: If you want to fight, I’ll be your opponent! Rawr!
Natsuki: Stop that!
I bring my hand down in a karate chop onto her empty head.
ATRI: Owww!
ATRI: Heyyy, what are you dong, Natsuki-san!?
Natsuki: We’re not fighting, and even if we were, I don’t need your help.
Natsuki: You know what will happen if a robot hurts a human!
ATRI: Hmph… Consider yourself lucky!
Ryuuji: No, seriously, the hell are you guys talking about?
Ryuuji: And wait, you’re a robot!?
ATRI: You bet I am!
She puffs out her chest and stares him down.
Ryuuji: Whoa, you don’t look like it all… I just thought you were some weird kid.
ATRI: That’s just how high-performance I am!
Natsuki: So, Ryuuji, are you free after this?
Ryuuji: Yep, got nothing planned tonight.
Natsuki: In that case, come to my ship. We have vital things to discuss.
Ryuuji: Err, right. Okay.
Natsuki: Come on, ATRI. Let’s get going.
ATRI: Okaaaay!
Ryuuji: Grabbing my hand, patting my shoulder, inviting me to his ‘ship’… This new guy’s one strange dude.
Minamo: Hehe, he’s nice though, right?
Ryuuji: Well, I dunno about that yet.
Ryuuji: So you, like, live there?
Ririka: Whoa, it’s a boat! That’s so cool!
Minamo: Amazing, right?
Ryuuji: …Why are you guys here again?
Minamo: Just out of concern. Don’t want you two getting into any fights.
Ririka: I just wanted to see where you live!
Natsuki: Right, come on in.
Boarding the ship, we’re welcomed in by the sound of some recent pop song blaring from the radio.
Ririka: Ooh, you’ve got a radio too!
Natsuki: Those are pretty easy to make. I’ll teach you how sometime.
Ririka; Really? Yayyy!
Ryuuji: Oh, so you like music too? What kinda bands you into? I listen to a lot of old 20th-century stuff, Shunyata, Auditory Teens, Sidewalk, real retro, y’know?
Natsuki: I can’t tell you anything about music from any century. I just don’t like the silence around here.
These days, radio is the most prolific form of media humanity has.
Television still exists, but there’s hardly anything on the air. It’s a medium purely for the richest now.
The great sea rise threw the planet’s internet infrastructure into chaos, and any devices capable of accessing what’s left of the various walled-off networks are now out of reach of the average person.
Analog radio, once almost forgotten by the people at large, has become mainstream again. It’s much cheaper to make, and cheaper to listen to, after all.
I grab a file from the bookcase, and lay it out on the desk.
Natsuki: I think it was something in here…
The file is part of my grandmother’s research notes. I’ve hardly touched them since she died, so they’re exactly as she left them.
They vast majority of her research is underwater now, buried in that storehouse, but there’s still a significant amount here.
Minamo: What’s that?
Natsuki: My grandmother was an ocean geologist. She used to research predicted sea rises, and was working to wards generating electricity using them.
Natsuki: She left me her notes when she died.
Minamo: Hmm… These seem pretty complicated.
Natsuki: Ah, here’s the part I was looking for.
I slide a single page out from a stack of intricate drawing of machinery.
Natsuki: This is what I want to make.
Ryuuji: …
It’s one of the many plans for hydroelectric generators she created.
Ryuuji stares at the paper in silence for a while.
Ryuuji: …I think we can manage this. It doesn’t seem like it would be that difficult to construct.
Ryuuji: What are we gonna do about the materials, though? If we make it out of metal, we’d need some pretty heavy machinery.
Ryuuji: And even if we had that, we’re not gonna be able to install something that heavy. We wouldn’t be able to lift the thing.
I can sense the confidence of experience in the tone of his voice.
Natsuki: I assumed that. I want to use scavenged gear as much as possible, but we’ll have to make the turbine ourselves.
Natsuki: I think I know the perfect material-fiberglass. It’s light, easy to work with, and it won’t corrode or degrade in seawater.
Fiberglass is comprised of plastic reinforced with a membrane of glass fibers.
Plastic, naturally, doesn’t rust. And since it’s completely waterproof, it’s not going to rot in seawater either.
Natsuki: So, what do you think?
Ryuuji: Hmm, well, I’ve worked with fiberglass before. I think it could work.
Natsuki: Do you have the materials for it? If you family’s got a workshop, you should be able to find them, right?
Ryuuji: …
Minamo: Ah, Ryuu-chan’s family workshop isn’t usable any more. It got swallowed up by the sea…
Ryuuji: Yeah, exactly. Shame, I’m pretty sure we had all the stuff we’d need.
He sights heavily.
Ryuuji: I’ll have an ask around. We haven’t talked to most of our suppliers in years, though.
ATRI: If it’s at the bottom of the sea, why don’t you just go and pull it up?
Ryuuji: Oh yeah, great idea. I’ll just put on some flippers and so say hi to the fish, right?
ATRI: Natsuki-san could do it. Can’t you?
Natsuki: Yeah.
Natsuki: Come with me.
I lead everyone out to where a big egg-like object is bobbing up and down in the water at the ship’s fore.
Ryuuji: I though that thing looked weird. What actually is it?
Natsuki: My submarine, the Serpens Albus.
Ryuuji: You’ve got a sub!?
Natsuki: Yeah, and this is going to take us to your workshop.
The next day…
Child B: Whoaaa! It’s a ship!
Ririka: Amazing, right!?
Child C: He’s only a high schooler, and he’s got this own ship? He really must have been up to some really doday stuff to buy this…
I’m starting to think that I should clear up that I am, in fact, not actually a murderer.
Minamo: Be careful on the deck, okay? If you run around too much, you’ll fall overboard!
Minamo, my first mate for the day, calls out a warning to the children.
Today we’ll be diving down to try to salvage the necessary resin we’ll need to make fiberglass.
We decided to dive in the morning, but naturally Minamo raised an objection to us playing hooky.
Faced with the choice of school or salvage… The whole class ended up tagging along.
Ririka: Ahh, it’s so much fun going on a school trip!
I suppose her idea is that at least this way it’s kind of like taking the kids to see the inner working of the salvage industry.
…With the bonus effect of providing an adequate excuse to skip school.
Natsuki: Everyone on board? Then we’re heading out, cast off the mooring lines.
ATRI: Aye, aye, cap’n!
ATRI unties the ropes linking the ship to the pier.
I fire up the engine, and we set off.
Navigating by a map of the town drawn up before the seas rose, we make our way toward our sunken treasure.
Ryuuji: Should be around here…
The visibility underwater varies a lot, but today it’s looking nice and clear.
Ryuuji calls up to me from the forecastle.
Ryuuji: There it is!
Ryuuji: It’s that building with the square roof.
I bring the ship to a stop and go over to scope out the location.
Beneath the gently rippling waves I can make out the building he’s pointing at.
Natsuki: Let’s drop anchor over there.
We anchor the ship a little way away, and prepare for work.
Ririka: Hey, Minamo-chan. Can we eat out lunches yet?
Minamo: No way, we’re only just arrived.
For what’s quite an important mission, there’s a strange lack of tension in the air.
Natsuki: ATRI, get ready to dive.
ATRI: Aye aye!
Natsuki: Minamo, help her out.
Minamo: Gotcha. Let’s go, ATRI-chan.
We start preparing the Serpens Albus for the task ahead.
Our objective-resin.
According to Ryuuji, it seems like the sub will be too big to actually fit inside the workshop.
That’s why we’ll have an extra pair of hands to help us.
Minamo: Okay, we’re ready.
Minamo and ATRI emerge from the cabin.
Minamo: I found an old swimsuit of mine from middle school. Fits her perfectly, right? ♪
ATRI: H-How do I look? Ahem, ahem…
Err… What am I supposed to say?
Ryuuji: Dude, say something.
Ryuuji digs his elbow into my side.
Ryuuji: If you don’t say something nice, you’re gonna be in for a world of pain.
Ryuuji: Trust me, I’ve got two sisters. I know how this goes.
Natsuki: Well… It suits you, ATRI.
ATRI: Really? Ahh, he actually praised me, Minamo!
Minamo: Nice one, ATRI-chan!
Natsuki: Why are you wearing one too, though?
Minamo: Huh? Well, err…
Ririka: Wow, you’ve got a great figure, Minamo-chan!
Child B: W-Whoa…
Child C: Don’t you think that’s a bit skimpy?
Minamo: Seriously? I did’t think it was that bad…
ATRI: …I’m starting to wish whoever designed me gave me a banging bod like that.
ATRI is staring at Minamo with jealous intensity.
Minamo: D-Don’t say stuff like that. This isn’t too small is it, Natsu-kun?
Natsuki: W-Well… I think it suits you.
Taking a sudden interest in a seagull in the distance, I stare fixedly beyond her.
Minamo: Oh. Hehe, I got complimented too…
ATRI: Grr… Dammit, why did my designer have to make me so aerodynamic?
Ryuuji: Jeez, you guys are really ealily-distracted. C’mon, let’s get this show on the road.
Natuski: Y-Yeah, let’s not waste time.
We’ll be diving in the Serpens Albus initially, but then ATRI will be heading into the workshop alone. She dosen’t need to breathe for a start, so she can stay in there for as long as necessary.
We just have to clear away anything in her path that might get in the way.
Exactly what role a swimsuit-clad Minamo plays in this equation is unclear.
Minamo: There’s a really good reason, actually.
Natsuki: I didn’t even say anything…
Minamo: I could tell by the look on your face that you were wondering why I’m wearing this.
Minamo: It’s so that if you fall in the sea again like last time, I’ll be able to pull you out.
Natsuki: You can swim?
I’m strange impressed. Well, for a second…
Minamo: …
Ririka: She can doggy-paddle, but that’s it. She can’t even open her eyes underwater like I can!
Minamo: Aww…
I pat a dejected Minamo on the shoulder, and sigh.
Nasuki: Let’s try not to have anything any collateral damage here. Don’t go jumping into the sea, right?
Minamo: Gah, okay…
Natsuki: I need you operating the which, anyway. That, and keeping an eye on the brats so they don’t mess up my ship.
Minamo: Okay, gotcha.
After last time, she should be pretty familiar with the basics of operating the crane.
Natsuki: Are you sure you’re going to be okay down there, ATRI?
ATRI: Of course. Why wouldn’t I be?
Natsuki: You’re a delicate machine, right? You’re not going to break down if you go diving, are you?
ATRI: I’m equipped with more than enough water proofing for all everyday applications. I can even take baths!
Natsuki: Bathing and deep-sea diving aren’t exacting the same thing, you know?
ATRI: My specifications state that I should be okay down to a depth of thirty meters.
Natsuki: Thirty meters…?
The workshop is only about ten meters down. She should be fine.
Why does a household need to be able to survive thirty meters underwater, though?
Natsuki: If you feel like you’re in danger, dive me the signal. We’ll pull you straight back up.
ATRI: I’ll be completely okay. I’m a high-performance model, after all!
Humanoids are highly-advanced machines, but despite their intricacy, they still need to be durable to stand up to anything they’ll encounter in the course of serving humanity.
She wasn’t damaged at all when I salvaged her, so she should be okay.
Natsuki: Okay, time to commence Operation Resin Reclamation.
I purge the air in the ballast tanks, and the Serpens Albus starts to sink.
In the cockpit is me, and on slightly grumpy passenger.
Ryuuji: Man, it’s cramped in here.
I’d much rather be doing this alone, naturally.
But unfortunately, I might need help location the exact right part of the workshop.
Ryuuji: …
Natsuki: …
The atmosphere is more than a little awkward.
Natsuki: (I guess just because we’re working together it doesn’t mean we’re suddenly friends…)
So here we are, up close and personal, for the next while at least.
The Serpens Albus could, at a push, fit there people inside. But the lack of air filtration and limited oxygen would mean the amount of time of air filtration and limited oxygen would mean the amount of time you could spend underwater would be dramatically less.
Natsuki: (Is ATRI still with us?)
I peer up out of the sub’s window.
She’s still holding on to the anti-shock frame.
ATRI: …
Noticing me, she waves happily. She seems to be saying something, but I can’t hear anything from beyond the glass.
Although we’ve established a few basic hand signs, I’m still a little worried about how difficult it will be to communicate with her.
Ryuuji: It’s really there…
Ryuuji mumbles to himself.
I remember the small pang of nostalgia that I felt when I saw my grandmother’s home. It must be even more vivid for him.
Ryuuji: My grandad set this place up. It might have been small, but we pried ourselves on the quality of our work. We even got orders in from overseas sometimes.
Ryuuji: If it wasn’t for the seas rising, I’d have been carrying on the family business…
Natsuki: I see…
That’s all I can think of to say.
I don’t really know what Ryuuji’s situation is. Even if I did, it wouldn’t be my place to comment.
He must understand that, surely. I suppose he just wants to get those feelings off his chest, regardless of who he’s telling them to.
The Serpens Albus finally settles down on the sea bed.
ATRI: …
ATRI lets go of its frame, and stands beside us.
I adjust the ballast tanks, filling them with just enough water to maintain neutral buoyancy while ATRI works.
Natsuki: Minamo, can you hear me?
Minamo: Yep, loud and clear.
Ririka: Oooh, we can really hear them! What’s it like down there? I wanna go next time!
Minamo: Ririka, stop that, you’re in the way! Go and play over there.
Natsuki: We’ve reached the target, and we’re about to start salvaging. Lower the crane, please.
Minamo: Okay, will do.
The winch’s hook slowly sinks down to meet us. Attached is a net ready for us to load up with anything we want to bring back.
Natsuki: Where will the resin be?
Ryuuji: In the storeroom at the back of the workshop. She’ll have to go in through those shutters, and then right.
We already plotted out the place before coming down here, so ATRI should understand that.
Fortunately, the shutters are open. Won’t have to force our way through them.
I turn on the sub’s lights, illuminating the dark depths of the warehouse.
Natsuki: Ready, ATRI?
ATRI: …
She grins and lets out a cloud of bubbles.
I can’t hear her, but I think I can guess what she’s saying.
Something, probably.
She gives me some kind of affirmative gesture, bows, and walks inside.
Natsuki: Be safe, ATRI. No accidents like the last salvage mission…
Memories of being buried underneath the rubble of the lab flash through my mind.
Even though I’m staying outside, just looking into the building before me make my chest tighten. It’s suddenly hard to breathe.
Natsuki: (No, it must just be the oxygen levels dropping… Come on, ATRI. Get this done and come back quick.)
She’s only in there for a matter of seconds, but it feels like many long, tension-filled minutes pass before she trots happily out.
Ryuuji: She’s back already? Man, that was quick.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t look like she’s holding anything that would contain resin.
Natsuki: Is there something wrong…?
She is carrying something, though.
ATRI: I’ve got a crab!
…
Natsuki: Sorry, what was that? I think I’m hallucinating from the lack of oxygen.
Ryuuji: Me too… I could have sworn she said she’s got a crab.
ATRI: …
The movement of her mouth, the voice I heard, and above all the snapping red thing in her hands… I must be hallucinating them all. Surely.
ATRI: Look, Natsuki-san! It’s a crab! There’s loads of them in there!
Natsuki: …I heard it again.
Yep, it’s just my brain interpreting her arms flapping, it must be.
Okay. Stay cool.
Natsuki: Who cares about crabs!? Get the damn resin, you piece of scrap!
ATRI, halfway through putting the crab into the salvage net, suddenly makes a gesture as she’s just remembered something, and trots off back into the warehouse.
Natsuki: Honestly, she’s useless…
Ryuuji: You sure she’s really a robot?
Natsuki: Regrettably, yes.
Ryuuji: She really doesn’t seem like it. I didn’t think Humanoids were supposed to be that expressive.
Natsuki: Yeah, the ones I saw when I lived in the city were a lot more emotionless.
The concept of the “uncanny valley” often comes up when talking about Humanoids.
As a robot’s appearance and mannerisms become more human-like, there comes a point when they from appealing to deeply unsettling.
If they’re totally human, the creepiness disappears, but the Humanoids back in the city were firmly in the uncanny valley.
Most of the time you wouldn’t notice, but occasionally there would just be moments where you realized just how alien an object you were looking at.
I haven’t had a single moment like that with ATRI yet.
Natsuki: That’s probably just because she’s defective.
After a moment, ATRI comes out of the workshop.
Thankfully, this time she’s carrying a tin of resin.
Ryuuji: Looks like that’s in pretty good condition. Dosen’t seem to be leaking at all.
Natsuki: Right, there should be four more in there, ATRI.
ATRI: …
She gives me a thumbs up, and walks through the shutters again.
After a few trips back and forth, we have what we need.
ATRI: …
She gives me the signal to wait.
Grumbling reluctantly, I signal ‘okay’, and she goes back inside once more.
ATRI: Crabs! I’ve got crabs!
Ah, there’s that hallucination again. She’s holding one in each hand, her eyes sparking with delight.
She puts them into the net with the resin.
Natsuki: Minamo, raise the crane. Gently, now…
Minamo: Roger!
We start on our way back, having safely acquired our haul of resin… and crabs.
ATRI: Phew. We’re back!
Minamo: Good work, ATRI-chan.
Natsuki: Feeling all right?
ATRI: Hmm… All of my functions seem to be in order.
As much as her specifications might say she’s capable of operating underwater, she wasn’t really built for this kind of work.
If something did go wrong with her, it would probably be impossible to fix. The company that made her went out of business year ago.
Natsuki: If you notice anything wrong, tell me right away, okay?
ATRI: Okay!
Ririka: How was it, Ryuuji-chan? Is your old house okay?
Ryuuji: I never wanna do that again. Being cooped up with another guy in a tiny sub for ages…
Ririka: Ahh, I wanna go down in a subermarine too!
Ryuuji: It’s too scary down there for kids. Don’t you know there’s monsters at the bottom of the sea?
Ririka: Huh!?
Ryuuji: Also, it’s ‘submarine.’ Man, I’m so freaking hot. I’m gonna go and sit in the shade…
He walks over to the shadow of the crane, and plonks himself down heavily.
Ryuuji: …
He stars into the floor, brows knitted. I can’t help put be a little worried about him.
Natsuki: Are you okay there? You don’t look great.
Ryuuji: I’m fine, dude.
He really doesn’t look it.
Ryuuji: I’m just… thinking, y’know.
I guess it must be hard for him, seeing his old home like that.
Lying there on the seafloor, preserved as if locked in amber.
Ryuuji looks over at Ririka, happily chatting away with the other kids.
Ririka: Ryuu-chan said it’s scary down there.
Child B: Man, I still really wanna go, though.
No parents, no home. A little girl living alone in the school…
Natsuki: I’m not going to let her in the sub, no matter how much she pesters me.
Ryuuji: Good. Right now, she’s not really, y’know?
Ryuuji: Thanks, though, for taking me back to that place. It’s helped me, y’know, think thing though.
Natsuki: No problem.
Ryuuji: I’m gonna take a nap. Man, I’m beat…
He hangs his head, and closes his eyes.
ATRI: Craaaaaabs!
ATRI comes running over with a crab in each hand.
ATRI: Look at the size of these things!
Natsuki: …You are really a robot, aren’t you? What kind of robot gets excited about crabs?
ATRI: Crabs are delicious, and delicious things make you happy!
A robot that doesn’t need food, but still wants to eat crab… What a decadent age she must have been built in.
Ririka: Crabs!
Minamo: They look delicious… Mmm!
Natsuki: (This won’t get us in trouble for poaching or anything, will it?)
That little doubt tingles at back of my mind, but who cares, really? It seems crab’s on the menu tonight.
We transport the tins up to one of the empty classrooms at school.
Ryuuji: Yep, these all look in good condition.
Ryuuji opens each can in turn. None of them show any signs of water damage.
There should be more than enough in these five cans for what we’re planning.
Ryuuji: Now we just need the other parts.
Natsuki: Yeah, and I’ll draw up a new blueprint.
Ryuuji: Huh? What’s wrong with the ones you’ve already made?
Natsuki: I want to make up dam slightly bigger. When I started planning I was envisioning it being made of metal, but now we’re using fiberglass we’re not limited to flat surfaces.
Fiberglass is much easier to mold compared to metals, which would require specialized tools to shape into curves.
Now I can make a much more energy-efficient design.
Ryuuji: Wow, you’re kinda amazing, y’know?
Natsuki: What, that some kind of insult?
Ryuuji: No, I really mean it. You can drive a submarine, you can design generators, and everything. Did you learn all that at The Academy?
Natsuki: I did learn some stuff there, but mostly I taught myself.
I always used to want to learn everything, no matter what it was. I suppose I picked that up from my grandmother, or my father.
Ryuuji: Really? Well, my bad for busting your balls before.
Natsuki: And I guess I’m sorry for assuming you were an idiot, too.
I bow my head to him earnestly.
Ryuuji: Heh, you’re really able to come out and just say that. I’m kinda surprised.
Natsuki: What?
Ryuuji: Heh, you’re a funny dude.
I stare at him nonplussed as he laughs and pats me on the shoulder.
Minamo: They’re ready!
Minamo is standing by a desk that she’s carried down, watching over an enticingly bubbling pot on a portable stove.
In the pot are pair of brights red creatures.
ATRI: Crab, crab, wonderful crab! ♪
Ririka: Crab, crab, lovely crab! ♪
Child B: Ahh, I’m so hungry!
Child C: Minamo-chan, give me some! Please!
Minamo: Calm down, there’s plenty to go around.
She stats to serve up the crab to the starving children(and robot).
Ririka: This looks so goooood!
We all crowd around the stove and start eating. It’s a perfectly fitting end to a school trip… I suppose?
ATRI: Mmn… It’s delicious!
Minamo: It really is!
Child C: Ow! It’s really hot…
Child B: Yum, it’s so tasty!
There’s nothing in the broth but salt, but the crab is so full of sweetness that it’s still absolutely delicious. You don’t need any seasonings when you have such good base ingredients.
The sea may have stolen all hope from this town when it swallowed up our lives, but you could say it brought some gifts with it. The seas made humanity prosperous in the first place, after all.
Ryuuji: Mmmn, this stuff’s great. Just another piece of top-class work from Nojima Engineering.
Natsuki: I guess so. This takes me back…
Preparing food with everything like this, it’s almost like… What is it? Hmmm…
Minamo: It’s like a school festival or something, isn’t it?
Minamo grims, and everything nods in agreement.
ATRI: What’s a ‘school festival’?
Minamo: It’s an event where all the classes in a school put on some kind of special event, like a play, or a café, or haunted house.
Minamo: To get the classroom ready you normally have to stay at school until really late.
Ryuuji: We used to have them every year before the school got flooded.
ATRI: Ohh, that sounds fun.
Ririka: I was the prince in Snow White when I was in first year!
Minamo: It’d be nice if, maybe one day, we could fill this school with students again and have another festival.
Ryuuji: We’d definitely need electricity for that. Right?
Natsuki: Yeah. It’s help with the preparations, and allow for a lot more activities.
Ryuuji: We’ll get started on the dam tomorrow. Right, bro?
For some reason the “bro” doesn’t even phase me.
Natsuki: You got it. I’m counting on you.
I respond as naturally as anything.
I never thought for a second that I’d end up actually getting along this guy. I thought we’d never see eye-to-eye.
Natsuki: (I guess that’s the power of crab. Gotta respect the crab.)
It’s just like ATRI said. Delicious things make you happy…
Natsuki: It’s gotten really late…
After we ate our fill of crab, I spent quite a while with Ryuuji examining possible to dam.
By the time we leave the school the tide has risen, and the roads are covered in a layer of glistening water, lapped by the waves.
ATRI: Natsuki-san, watch your step.
Natsuki: I’m fine, okay?
We trudge along the half-submerged pavement, holding hands.
Natsuki: (When did this become normal…?)
We’ve only been living together a few days, and we’re already walking everywhere hand in hand.
It makes me strangely uneasy.
If I become too reliant on ATRI, how will I survive when it’s just me and my own, crappy leg?
Natsuki: (…I’ll be fine, I’m sure. I’ve survived up until now, haven’t?)
As I walk carefully through the gurgling waves, ATRI suddenly stops and pulls at my hand.
ATRI: Wait, there’s something over there.
A strange object is lying across the road, seafoam washing up and over it as the water pushes inland.
Natsuki: …What on earth is that?
ATRI: Ooh, I know, it’s a manatee! I read about those in my textbook. ♪
Catherine: Ughhh… Gurbleburblegurble…
Natsuki: Catherine!?
My erstwhile business partner is lying in the middle of the sunken path.
Catherine: Ugghhh, I’m just so useless… I’m just gonna lie here, and let the sea take me. ♪
Natsuki: Is she drunk?
Another wave rolls in over the pavement.
Catherine: Blurgh… Hurk!
It break against her face, and she starts coughing up salty water.
ATRI: I don’t detect any danger, but we should avoid her just in case.
Natsuki: If we avoid her, she’s going to drown. We should help.
ATRI: But she tried to hurt you, Natsuki-san…
Natsuki: That was partially my fault. You said you’d protect me if things go bad anyway, didn’t you?
ATRI: Of course, but my rocket punch is so powerful that I’d prefer not to use it too often.
Natsuki: In that case, just grapple her or use less power or something if you need to.
ATRI: Ohh, I can do that? I’ve learned something!
ATRI: In that case, I’ll go and secure her before she drowns.
ATRI lets go of my hand, and moments later returns with Catherine draped over her shoulder.
ATRI: Okay, let’s go. ♪
Catherine: That goddamn kid… He thinks he’s so good just  because he’s kinda cute… Hic!
Natsuki: …I get the feeling she’s going to raise hell when she wakes up, but we can’t just leave her here.
We head home, begrudgingly bearing our booze-scented burden.
Catherine: Ughhhhhh…
Catherine: …
Ah, here it comes.
Catherine: Where am I…?
Catherine looks around wildly in confusion.
Catherine: That kid’s boat? Ugh…Oww, my head! Just how much did I drink last night?
Catherine: Ughh, I completely blacked out. Wait, if I’m here, does that mean we—
Natsuki: Not in a million years.
Catherine: Whoa!?
The instant she wakes up on the sofa, she starts with her usual nonsense.
I’ve been awake the whole time she’s been lying there snoring.
Spurred on by finding not just the correct materials but a reliable partner too, I’ve been so engrossed in redrawing my blueprints that I’ve not noticed the dawn coming.
Natsuki: (Plus, it’s not like I could just close my eyes for a bit with a potential murderer snoozing on my couch.)
I’d have to be crazy to go to sleep across the room from a drunkard who tried to slit my throat the last time I saw her.
Catherine: Hey… What the hell’s going on?
Natsuki: First, be careful. ATRI’s asleep, but one word from me and she’ll wake up. A robot always obeys its master, after all.
That’s a complete lie, and I know it. This “Low-voltage” piece of scrap wouldn’t wake up if I kicked her in the head.
Catherine: What did you do to me?
Natsuki: Nothing. You were drunk and it looked like you were about to drown, so against my better judgement we brought you here.
Catherine: Huh… Thanks, I guess.
Wow, she didn’t even try to argue with that. I guess she’s had a similar experience before… Unsurprisingly.
Natsuki: I’m sorry about the debt. If you want, take this ship, and the sub, and sell those to make up for it.
She’d get an order of magnitude less money than she would for a Humanoid, but it would probably just about be enough.
Catherine: If I did that, you’d end up homeless.
Natsuki: There’s plenty of empty rooms in the school I could hunker down in. I could even use the showers there.
After diving with ATRI yesterday, we’d borrowed the school showers to wash down. I didn’t want to have ATRI’s hair smelling of the sea.
There’s no hot water, but that’s not a problem at this time of year.
Catherine: Owning a ship like this would be nothing but trouble…
Natsuki: Are you sure about that? Whoever hired you might not care.
Catherine: True…
Catherine stands and walks toward the door.
Catherine: I should apologize too. Not that apologizing really makes up for what happened before…
Natsuki: If I went to the police, they’d probably lock you up.
Catherine: Jeez, there’s no mercy with you… Give me a break. That’s the last thing I need.
ATRI: Mmmn… What’s going on, Natsuki-saaan… Is it morning already?
ATRI groggily awakens.
Catherine: Eep!
Catherine: W-Well, see you around. Thanks for the help.
She swiftly makes her exit.
Natsuki: Not so threatening for someone who looked like she could have gladly slashed my throat a few days ago…
Maybe she’s not that evil after all. Was she just bluffing?
ATRI: Ohhhhh? Where did the lady we picked up last night go?
Natsuki: She said thanks, and left. Surprisingly gratefully, all in all.
ATRI: Okaaaay… Mmmnph…
Well, that’s the question of my grandmother’s debts solved for the moment, if not forever…
The next day, construction begins.
Natsuki: So, let’s go over the basics of how this will work again.
Natsuki: Moving a magnet near a coil makes a current flow through the wire. This is electromagnetic induction, as discovered in 1831 by the British physicist, Michael Faraday.
Natsuki: He discovered that an efficient way to generate electricity was to rotate a magnet within a coil.
Natsuki: This simple mechanism forms the basis of most modern electricity generators.
Natsuki: The only question is how you make the magnet spin. What kind of turbine do you use?
Natsuki: There’s a lot different options.
Minamo: Zzz…
Natsuki: Minamo.
Minamo: Y-Yes!?
She jerks out of her seat, standing bolt upright.
It’s rare to see her snoozing in class…
Minamo: Y-Yes, sir?
Natsuki: Tell me a little about some methods of power generation.
Minamo: Well, umm… you can burn fuel, use water… Wind? Geothermal energy? Umm, and…
Ririka: Ooh, me, me! Nuclear fission!
Natsuki: Okay, that’s pretty much all of the major ones. There’s potentially also nuclear fusion, but no one’s ever managed to put that to practical use.
For decades now, people have been saying fusion power is right around the corner. Studying how to practically apply the theories behind it is a major subject at The Academy.
Natsuki: Almost all forms of power generation basically come down to turning a turbine somehow.
Natsuki: Oil-and coal-burning power plants use steam to spin a turbine. A geothermal plant? Steam from boiling water deep in the ground spinning a turbine. Wind power? Just big turbines in the air.
Ririka: What about nuclear power?
Natsuki: They’re just like fuel-burning plants, but the heat is coming from a nuclear reaction instead of burning fossil fuels.
Ryuuji: Even those fancy fusion ones?
I nod.
Natsuki: As colossal as the amounts of nuclear energy involved are, in the end both fission and fusion generators are just spinning a turbine all the same.
Ryuuji: Seriously?
I was just as surprised when I found that out myself.
Natsuki: So basically, all of those methods of generation are just converting the energy from the fuel, water, or wind into electricity through a spinning magnet in a coil.
Natsuki: The key word there is ‘converting’-a generator doesn’t so much ‘generate’ power as it does simply ‘convert’ it from one form to another.
Energy can’t simply be birthed from nothing. That’s the point of the law of conservation of energy.
That means the conversion efficiency of a generator is a key factor. There’s always energy lost in the form of noise or heat, so a hundred joules of energy in won’t necessarily mean a hundred out.
Natsuki: There are some forms of power generation that don’t use turbines, by the way. Solar panels are a common example, but artificial muscle can also generate energy like that.
Natsuki: They’re a pretty interesting concept really. The muscles in the human body move by receiving electrical signals, so…
I can see the obvious lack of enthusiasm for a lecture on advanced biomimetics etched on everyone’s faces.
Natsuki: …Okay, back to the point. What we’re going to be doing is making a generator that utilizes a water turbine.
Ryuuji: Just like a regular hydroelectric dam, right?
I shake my head.
Natsuki: Strictly speaking, it’s a slightly different mechanism. This is tidal power.
That means that we’re going to be converting the energy of the incoming ocean tides into electricity.
Natsuki: I’m going to explain the specifics of the turbine we’re going to make, so try to follow along as best you can.
This is going to be like a big science experiment.
We’re going to need everyone understanding what’s going on as much as possible if we want to make this work, regardless of their age.
Natsuki: Right, let’s go and inspect the location.
I lead everyone down to an empty classroom on the second floor.
It’s low tide, and the floor is free of water.
Natsuki: First, we’re going to smash a hole through here.
I tap my prosthetic leg against the floor.
Natsuki: That will allow for water to flow down into the first floor.
The classroom below is already inundated with the sea.
Natsuki: We’ll be positioning the turbine in this hole.
Natsuki: This floor will fill with water when the tide comes in, and then drain again when it goes out.
Natsuki: It will naturally flow through the hole we made, and we’ll convert the energy of that movement into electricity.
Minamo: It sounds simple when you put it like that…
Natsuki: As I mentioned earlier, the key is going to be how we get the draining water to actually drive the turbine. What happens when you, say, suddenly pull the plug out of a sink?
Ririka: I know, I know! It makes a whirlpool!
Ririka throws her hand up, and doesn’t even wait for me to call on her.
Natsuki: Exactly. And we’re going to use that whirlpool.
Natsuki: We’ll make energy from both the rotational force of it, as well as the water falling.
There are quite a few ways to design a hydroelectric generator.
Most people will have seen hydroelectric dams, but it’s also possible to install water wheels in irrigation ditches, pipes, or any other kind of running water.
The key is that there has to be smooth flow in one direction.
Unfortunately, the water on the second floor flows in in one direction, and back out in the other.
There’s one way we can take advantage of that-a turbine with an axle aligned vertically, not horizontally. It’ll be able to turn efficiently regardless of what direction the water is coming from.
Ryuuji: So, what exactly do we have to do?
Natsuki: There’s three major things we need. First, we need to smash open that hole. I’ll walk you through the process to do that now.
Ryuuji: It’s easy enough to say that, but this is gonna be tough, y’know? We won’t be able to use any electricity drills or anything.
True, we don’t have electricity until we generate it ourselves.
Ryuuji: Well, we’ll manage it somehow. What’s second on the to-do list?
Natsuki: So the tide comes flowing up from the first-floor corridor, right?
At high tide, it rises up the stairs and floors the second floor.
The stairs are currently the only path in or out for the water.
Ryuuji: Year, and it goes back the same way.
Natsuki: If all of the water takes the path of least resistance and flows down the stairs, our hole will be useless.
Natsuki: So we need a value-in other words, a dam that will let the water in but prevents it from leaving again. That will create a reservoir that’s guaranteed to drain through our turbine.
Ryuuji: We’ll have to have a think about how we construct that, but I think we can manage it.
Natsuki: The third thing, of course, is the most important. We can’t make a generator without a turbine.
Natsuki: I want it to be about a meter in diameter, and it’ll need to be tall enough that the axle is above the water line at high tide.
I unfurl the blueprints and show them to him.
My scribbles here are more detailed than the last set, the product of a long, hard night.
Natsuki: We’ll be making it out of fiberglass, using the resin we salvaged yesterday. Sound good?
There are two important things when it comes to designing power plants.
Lifespan, and fixability.
A power plant should ideally be able to be operated safely for as long as possible. Entire communities can depend on them, and they need a sustainable source of power.
But no matter how long a plant is meant to last, there’s always the chance that it will run into problems. It must be constructed to allow maintenance, and be rebuilt easily if it fails completely.
Fiberglass is perfect for our needs in both respects.
It won’t rust in seawater like metal, and as long as you have the molds and plants you used originally, you can rebuild the same structure over and over again.
And most importantly, it’s easy to work with without electricity tools.
Ryuuji: …Sound good, mostly. Got a couple of problems, though.
He stares at the plants with a knitted brow.
Natsuki: I tried to give it as large a surface area as possible to get the most out of our limited flow of water…
Ryuuji: That’s fine. The blades will be easy to make in fiberglass. The problem is these parts, where we attach them to the axle. They’re too complicated. Think you can simplify them?
Natsuki: Then how about this?
Ryuuji: That might make it too weak, right? You sure about that?
Natsuki: Then maybe we can trim these parts down…
Ririka: Minamo-chan, can we go back to the classroom?
Minamo: I suppose so. It seems like this might take a while.
We’re so engrossed in our discussion that we hardly notice everyone leaving us completely alone.
Thus construction gets underway.
The first order of business is to carve some large polystyrene blocks into shape.
These will from the molds for the different parts of the turbine, which will be layered with fiberglass resin and left until it sets into shape.
Fiberglass’ ability to be molded like this is one reason why it’s such a widely-used material.
Also, its high strength to weight ratio makes it perfect for car fenders and boat hulls.
Minamo: And a bit there, and there…
Ririka: It kinda looks like snow when you carve it like that!
Child C: Whoa, yeah!
The kids are mostly treating this like fun, but they’re still doing good work. Once they reach a certain point, however, I have to step in to do the more delicate parts.
ATRI: Let me help too, Natsuki-san.
She looks up at me with puppy-dog eyes.
Natsuki: Not a chance. You’ll break everything into a million pieces.
ATRI: Aww, such is the fate of a killing machine. I must learn to control my horrific powers…
Natsuki: We’ve got limited resources here. We can’t afford too many failures.
Natsuki: I’m going to go and check up on how it’s going downstairs. Come give me a hand.
ATRI: Okaaaay…
She takes my hand with a disconsolate pout.
We can tell that work is going on as soon as we approach the stairs to the second floor.
The sound of clanging metal echoes off of the old concrete walls.
The sound stops as we approach the classroom.
Ryuuji: Damn, this stuff’s hard!
Ryuuji rests his pickaxe against the wall, and takes off his gloves.
His hands are red, raw and calloused.
Natsuki: This might be more difficult than I anticipated.
Ryuuji: I thought I could manage it, but at this rate it’s gonna take a whole month just to get the hole made.
This dilapidated old building is more sturdy than I ever could have imagined. We’ve only just started, and I’m already starting to think we’ve been a little naïve.
Natsuki: Maybe I should help out too.
Ryuuji: Nah, I’m the only one around here built for the rough stuff. I’m sure I’ll manage it.
He dons his gloves again, and grabs his pick.
Natsuki: …
To be honest, I’d prefer if he was freed up to help with the more complicated parts of making the turbine, parts that might require some of his particular specialist knowledge.
But I can’t exactly do this kind of job with my leg.
I suppose it will have to be him who handles the manual work…
Natsuki: …Ah. ATRI!
ATRI: Yes?
Sometimes it’s hard to remember because she looks like such a small, fragile girl, but she’s definitely the strongest among us.
Her strength is pretty much the only thing she’s useful for, unless you’ve got a real hankering for some crab.
Natsuki: Can you help me out?
ATRI: Absolutely! Whatever you want!
Natsuki: I want you to take this pickaxe, and open up a hole here. Just knock out all of the concrete in this circle.
A line marking out the size of the turbine is drawn on the floor.
Ryuuji: Seriously? You’re gonna make her do it?
ATRI: Hehe, this’ll be easy as pie! ♪
Natsuki: Let her give it a try.
ATRI: Here I go…
ATRI: Wham!
Ryuuji: Whoa… She cracked straight through it.
ATRI: Hehehe, that’s military robot power right there.
Ryuuji: You’re some kinda army bot?
Natsuki: Don’t listen to that idiot.
ATRI: Ah, it’s super-ultra-top-secret, so you can’t tell anyone, by the way.
Ryuuji: Jeez, seriously?
He can’t actually believe her, can he?
Natsuki: Well, keep that up, ATRI. We’re going to do some work upstairs.
ATRI: …
ATRI’s triumphant smile vanishes.
Natsuki: Hmm? What’s wrong?
ATRI: I’m supposed to be your leg. I should be by your side at all times.
Natsuki: You know what would be really useful? A leg you could take off and have knock out a floor for you. What a high-performance leg that would be, eh?
Natsuki: So don’t worry about me. Everyone else is up there to look after me.
ATRI: …
ATRI throws aside the pickaxe and trots over to me.
She grabs a hold of my shirt sleeve.
ATRI: As a robot, my operational priorities are hard-code, and being by your side is my highest priority.
Natsuki: Right… Well, it looks like I’m staying here. I’m worried that you won’t stick to the line anyway.
Natsuki: Ryuuji, can you handle things upstairs?
Ryuuji: Gotcha. Any problems, just yell.
With Ryuuji gone, ATRI reverts to a wide, gleeful smile.
ATRI: Okay then, in accordance with your wishes, it’s time to show you just how high-performance a demolition machine I can be!
She happily goes about swinging the pickaxe.
Natsuki: (Why does she hate being separated from me so much?)
I can’t tell whether it’s a part of her programming, or that she just wants me to see her working hard.
Whatever the case, I’m happy to have her strength to help out.
For a while, I have nothing to do but watch over her as she bangs away.
When the sun begins to dip, and the high tides threaten to invade the second floor, I take ATRI up to see everyone.
Natsuki: How are things up here?
Ryuuji: Going great.
Child B: Come back here!
Child C: Ahhh, stoooop!
Ririka: Wahahahaha!
Minamo: Come on guys… It might not feel like it, but this is class, you know.
Ryuuji: Damn, those kids never shut up…
Natsuki: The hole-digging work went well, thanks to ATRI.
ATRI: Heh!
Natsuki: Let’s head home before it goes too dark.
Minamo: Oh, wait a moment.
Minamo: Umm, while you were downstairs, we made a few things.
On the desk is a pile of rice balls, and a steaming bowl of miso soup.
Ririka: We helped make them, didn’t we?
Child B: I made that one really big rice ball!
Child C: I helped Minamo-chan make the soup!
Natsuki: Workers’ grub, huh?
Minamo: I though everyone might be hungry.
Ryuuji: Huh, may as well chow down before we go.
ATRI: Those look nice…
Natsuki: …You can have some too, you know.
ATRI: Really?
Natsuki: Yeah, you worked hard enough, I suppose. Delicious food makes you happy, right?
ATRI: Of course!
Minamo: Here you go, ATRI-chan.
ATRI: Yayyy! Thanks, Minamo!
ATRI: Mmn,*cronch*… Ahh, food tastes even better after a hard day’s work.
Ryuuji: I know, right?
Minamo: Hehe, there’s plenty more where that came from.
Ririka: I want seconds!
Everyone hungrily chomps through the little packets of salty rice.
Everyone’s so famished from our long day of work that they all disappear with astonishing speed.
Natsuki: …
Minamo: What’s up, Natsu-kun? Don’t you like them?
Natsuki: No, they’re great…
It’s the absolute simplest of foods, and yet it somehow tastes so much better than anything I can imagine some big-shot chef making.
The crab yesterday was great too, but you can’t really mess up crab.
Natsuki: Better after a hard day’s work, huh…?
I savor the salty taste against my tongue, thinking about how long it’s been since I ate such a filling meal.
For a while every day passes by at this languid pace. We work from sunrise to sunset, enjoy Minamo’s feast, and then head home.
We reach the end of another long, exhausting day.
Natsuki: The hole is pretty much done, I think.
ATRI: Almost, yeah!
Natsuki: Hey, brats.
Child B: Why you gotta call us that, Hitman? Or, err, I guess maybe ‘Foreman’ makes more sense now…
I really don’t need another nickname.
Natsuki: Don’t go anywhere near that classroom on the second floor. If you let the tide pull you into that hole, there’ll be no getting you out.
Child C: What, we’ll really die?
Natsuki: Yep. You too, Ririka. Don’t you go snooping around just because you’re curious.
Ririka: O-Okay…
Ririka nods earnestly.
I think they understand just how dangerous it is. I shouldn’t have to worry about them.
Ryuuji: The molds are all finished. We can start layering the fiberglass in them now.
Natsuki: I’ll help too when I have a hand to spare.
Ryuuji: Thanks, we’ll need all the help we can get.
Minamo: Hehe, this really does feel just like we’re getting ready for a school festival or something.
Minamo: Did they have festival at your last school, Natsu-kun?
Natsuki: Well, it wasn’t really that kind of place. Everyone was too engrossed in their studies or personal research to enjoy those kinds of frivolous things.
Ryuuji: It was a high school, right? What kinda high school kid does ‘research’?
Natsuki: At that place, as long as you could get good results, you could study whatever specialist subject you wanted. Even I did.
Minamo: What kind of thing did you research?
Natsuki: The basics of robot construction, and potential applications of robots in extreme environments.
Minamo: Robot construction? Wow…
Ririka: Whoa, that’s kinda amazing! I don’t know anything about that kinda stuff, but it’s probably, y’know, amazing!
Ryuuji: Huh. So how did you go from fancy research and all that jazz to slumming it in a backwater like this?
Natsuki: Well, it wasn’t exactly by choice…
I laugh darkly, taking a seat and stretching out my right leg.
I undo the straps on my prosthetic limb.
Natsuki: I was eight years old when I lost my leg in a tunnel collapse.
Natsuki: That was the reason why I first came to this town.
Natsuki: My mother died in that same accident. The doctors said that I should recuperate somewhere peaceful, and so I was left with my grandmother.
Natsuki: That was back before the seas rose, when the coasts around here was so beautiful.
The landscapes were truly stunning too, almost serene enough to soothe a soul as fractured as mine.
Natsuki: One day, after I’d recovered… I met a girl.
Minamo: O-Oh… you mean, umm, me?
Natsuki: No. It was a beautiful older girl.
Minamo: …
Ririka: Don’t worry, Minamo-chan!
Natsuki: It was all thanks to her that I was able to get back to my feet again. And then I met Minamo too…
Minamo: Yeah, we used to play together all the time, didn’t we? Granny even let us go on her boat sometimes.
“Granny”… My grandmother, Yachigusa Nonko.
Whenever she found me sneaking onto the ship that I now call my home, she’d scream my ears off.
Ririka: What kind of kid was he?
Minamo: Well… He was pretty gloomy. Even if you tried to talk to him, sometimes he’d just stare at you completely stoney-faced.
Ryuuji: The more things change, eh? Haha!
Minamo: But he was always really clear, he’d teach me about so many things.
Ririka: Just like he does now!
Child B: Yeah, it sounds like he’s completely the same!
Child C: yeah…
Natsuki: Heh, sorry for being a such a miserable kid.
Minamo: You did start to smile a lot more when you’d been living here for a while, though.
During the time that I was hanging around with Minamo, I was gradually getting used to life without my right leg.
Natsuki: And then, well…
I though I had to save the world.
Natsuki: My father got me to apply for The Academy. I passed the entrance exams fairly easily with a little studying.
Ryuuji: What’s up with your old man, anyway? Where is he?
Natsuki: He’s, well… I don’t know. He’s probably out there somewhere working on his own projects. He probably doesn’t even know that I’m back here.
Ryuuji: The hell? Sounds like a real great dad, huh?
Natsuki: Some fathers are like that.
Natsuki: Anyway, I got into The Academy, and I threw myself into studying how to save the world.
Natsuki: My father did give me one thing as a present when I started-a cybernetic leg. A much nicer one than this piece of junk.
It was a particularly advanced, expensive model. It read the brain signals that would normally be travelling to my leg, and moved accordingly. It was perfect. High-performance, even.
It was like I was whole again.
Natsuki: I worked hard to stand out at the top of the middle school classes, and carried on those results in the high school division. Even the teachers were humbled by my knowledge sometimes.
Ryuuji: I can imagine that. You there, looking down on the adult with that superior expression of yours.
…It’s like he can look into the past.
Yes, it’s true. I would always try to humiliate the less-specialized teachers with my particular fields of knowledge. I just couldn’t respect them. They were like cogs in the machine.
That didn’t make for the best relations with everyone there.
Natsuki: That all changed at the beginning of this year. I couldn’t afford the tuition fees anymore on just my father’s stipend.
Natsuki: That gave the teachers the perfect excuse to have me excluded from lessons.
Minamo: That’s horrible…
Ryuuji: Yeah… You get those kinda adults everywhere, don’t you?
Natsuki: All I could think of to do was to sell my cybernetic leg, and pay my fees with that.
Natsuki: But it’s hard to live with a disability when you’ve got no one there to help you. When there’s not a single person on your side…
It was my own attitude that had left me in that situation, but naturally I didn’t consider that at the time.
Natsuki: In the end, I just couldn’t stay there any more. I ran away.
The air among all listening doesn’t seem quite so sympathetic after hearing my tale of self-inflicted woe.
Look at who I’m taking to. There’s Ririka, who lost her parents and her home, and now lives in a dark, empty classroom. What I’ve been through is nothing compared to her.
Ryuuji’s family lost their home too, and I’m sure the other kids have similar stories.
Everyone in this cursed age has their own pain.
Minamo: So that’s what happened…
Ryuuji: You’ve been through the wringer too, huh?
Natsuki: Hasn’t everyone?
Ririka: …I’m sorry I told everyone you’d killed three people.
Natsuki: I’d rather everyone think that than know the truth, if anything.
Ryuuji: But why did you come back here, though? Couldn’t you have gone back to your dad or something?
Natsuki: I thought I’d just get in his way. My grandmother was, as least, well, still alive, so, you know…
Ryuuji: That’s your entire reason? Nothing else?
Natsuki: What else could there be?
Ryuuji: Dude, like…
Minamo: L-Like, umm… Me being here?
Minamo: Haha, of course not, I’m joking. Got a little bit carried away there, haha…
Natsuki: I guess that’s part of it too. It’s reassuring to not be completely alone, at least.
If there’s one thing my time at The Academy taught me, it’s that.
Minamo: Really? Ehehe…
Ryuuji grins.
Ryuuji: I get what’s really going on here. You came back looking for that girl you liked.
Natsuki: …
Minamo: H-Huh, really?
Ririka: Ooh, he’s gone all red.
Ryuuji: Hahaha, well, that’s a surprise. I thought you were some high-and-mighty gloomy-guys, but maybe you’ve got a cute side to you after all!
Natsuki: Shut up!
Ryuuji: Ahh, coming out here, chasing his first love. Sweet, dude. Hehehe…
Natsuki: Gah, I shouldn’t have got carried away. I’ve said far too much…
What was the point in talking about all of that stuff anyway?
Ryuuji: Sorry, dude, I didn’t wanna make you mad. I just thought you might be a nicer guy than you look on the surface.
Natsuki: Say, Ryuuji… You’re well-known around here, right?
Ryuuji: Don’t say another word. I know what you’re gonna say, and the answer’s obviously ‘Yeah, I’ll help you find her.’
Natsuki: No, no, I was just thinking that you might be able to help me find a job. I can’t rely on my father anymore, so I need to find some way to support myself.
Ryuuji: Huh, well, I could probably get you a part-time job somewhere. Should be somewhere that’ll take him, right, Minamo?
Minamo: Hmm, I’m not too sure about that…
There are only so many jobs that someone with my body can manage.
Natsuki: I’ve got debts I inherited from my grandmother. If I don’t pay them back, well… I’ll have to sell ATRI.
Ryuuji: No way…
Minamo: You can’t do that! Right, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: No, I’ve always understood that it will happen. In fact, I’d really like to help out by being sold and making him a lot of money.
ATRI: Ideally, I’d like him to be able to buy a brand new leg… Not that he’d ever be able to get one as high-performance as me, of course.
Natsuki: I’ve told you, that’s not what I want. Get it into that toaster brain of yours!
ATRI: You said that word again! According to the… err, relevant law, that means that you have a toaster for a brain, not me!
Natsuki: That doesn’t even make sense. What are you, four years old?
As we while away the time with idle foolishness, the evening sun starts to dip below the horizon. The dazzling amber of its rays glimmers off the incoming tide, illuminating our faces.
Minamo: Oh my, we should really get the kids back home before it gets dark.
She rings her little handbell, and class officially comes to a close.
We hurriedly pack together anything we need to take home, leaving a small mountain of shredded polystyrene behind.
Ryuuji: If I find anything decent, I’ll get you know. Don’t get your hopes up, though. Times are hard around these parts lately.
Natsuki: That’s okay. Thanks.
A few days of construction pass.
We’ve now moved on to one of the most important parts of the process: molding the fiberglass.
We’ve now moved on to one of the most important parts of the process: molding the fiberglass.
Fiberglass is made by forming glass matting over a mold, in our case made of polystyrene, and then applying a hardening plastic resin.
Glass matting is comprised of woven glass fibers, with are impregnated by the resin.
You then layer these impregnated mats on top of each other in your mold, so they take the shape you need.
After hardening and polishing the surface, you’re left with a hard, glass-reinforced plastic.
It’s strong, durable, and water-resistant enough to be used for boat hulls and numerous other applications. It’s not the most exciting material to make, but it’s simple and easy to work with.
In our case, we’ll be making the central part of our generator, the water turbine.
And I’m thankful to say that after several days of molding, our turbine blades are coming together.
Ryuuji: It’s gonna be a while before these things harden up properly.
When fiberglass cures, it gives off a horrendous stench. Even with the windows open, it’s tough to even stay in the same room at this stage of the process.
Natsuki: Maybe we should go shopping while this is drying.
We make our way to the market district.
Junk Shop Owner: What you asked for just came in, lad.
I’ve been waiting for this-the real heart of our generator is here.
The main part of the core is the motor. This one’s basic second-hand model, but if we can make it spin, the magnet rotating inside the internal coil will generate electricity.
To convert that electricity into a useful voltage, we’ve got some wires and a transformer to attach it to.
Natsuki: We’ve already got a battery, haven’t we?
Ryuuji: The old junker we’ve been keeping at my place has got one in it. That’ll be good enough, right?
Natsuki: Yeah, more than enough.
One of the problems with renewable energy resources is that the amount of power they generate throughout the day isn’t very inconsistent.
But by storing some of the surplus energy generated in a battery when conditions are good or power usage is low, you then have a backup for when your usage exceeds what you’re generating.
Natsuki: How much will that be?
He taps away at his calculator.
Junk Shop Owner: This should be good. I’m cuttin’ my margins pretty fine for you on this one, y’know.
Even so, it’s an amount that would stretch the purse strings of any high schooler.
Ryuuji, Minamo, and I all have to pool our resources in order to afford it.
Minamo: Argh… There goes all of my allowance for the month.
Ryuuji: We’re all in the same boat, don’t you worry.
Natsuki: I don’t even know how I’m going to get through tomorrow at this rate.
Junk Shop Owner: Ahh, more satisfied customers!
Just as we’re about to trudge out of the store, the owner calls out behind us.
Junk Shop Owner: Oh yeah, you know that gal with the flashy makeup you were hangin’ around with?
Natsuki: Catherine? What, did she do something stupid again?
Junk Shop Owner: That wasn’t Haha-chan, was it?
Natsuki: Who? I don’t know her real name, or anything about her, for that matter. All I know is that she said that she came from the big city.
Junk Shop Owner: Huh, gotcha. I guess it wasn’t her after all.
Junk Shop Owner: A lot of rumors have been going around about her, though. Some are sayin’ she’s a dead ringer for some ‘Hana-chan,’ Osada Hanako, who took off three years ago.
I don’t really know how to respond. I hardly know anything about Catherine, let alone this “Hana-chan.”
Natsuki: Next time I see her, I’ll ask about that?
When we get back, Ririka is working by herself.
Ririka: And a one, and a two…
Ryuuji: Huh, you’ve gotten pretty good at that.
Ririka: Yeah, Mr. Natsuki taught me how.
Ririka doesn’t even look away from her work.
Ryuuji: Mr. ’?’ Mister ’Natsuki? What, he like a teacher now or something?
Ririka: Ah, umm…!
Ririka: I-I didn’t say that. It’s a secret.
Ryuuji: Heh, weird. You hiding something, kid?
Ririka: N-No way! I’m not hiding anything! Nothing at all!
She does a strange little dance, which doesn’t make her denial any more convincing.
Luckily, Ryuuji quickly grows bored of teasing the kid and returns to his own business.
For a while, we’re all silently engaged in our work.
Ryuuji: Hey, Natsuki. You know what that guy said about that ‘Hana-chan’-
Ririka: HURK!
Minamo: Err, something wrong, Ririka?
Ririka: N-Nothing!
Ryuuji: I think I know who he was talking about.
Natsuki: Really?
Ryuuji: Yeah, now that I think about it, my eldest sister used to be friends whit a girl who was called Hanako. Her last name was O-something too.
Ryuuji: Why do you know her, though?
Natsuki: An… acquaintance of mine looks like her, apparently.
Or maybe she really is a local?
I don’t want to pry into people’s pasts too much. But if she’s going around calling herself ‘Catherine,’ there must be something she’s trying to hide.
I won’t dig too deep into her circumstances, though.
Natsuki: By the way, where are the other kids?
Ryuuji: Playing up on the roof, I guess.
Minamo: I didn’t see them when I went to check a minute ago. Ririka, do you know where they’ve gone?
Ririka: Umm, I think they went downstairs. I told them not to, but…
Ryuuji: Downstairs…
Blood rushes instantly to my head.
Natsuki: ATRI!
ATRI: yessir!
I grab hold of her hand, and start running.
The second floor is on the brink of being swallowed by the high tide.
I rush into the waters, trudging through the waves crashing against my legs.
I can feel my feet about to give way beneath me, but ATRI keeps me upright.
Child B: Waaahh!
Child C: Tooru-kun!
We hear the sound of screams coming from the room where our drainage hole is now filling with water.
We charge across the threshold-
Natsuki: …Huh!?
And find there, soaking wet and holding a child beneath each arm on the lip of the hole, Catherine.
Behind her, the tide is swirling around the hole in rising and falling motions, almost as if it is breathing.
Natsuki: ATRI, take the kids!
ATRI: Roger!
She grabs each of them from Catherine’s arms, and pulls them back into the corridor.
I pull Catherine through the door as the water surges behind us.
My prosthetic leg almost slips from underneath me, its fixings straining against my stump, but I manage to force my way back into calmer water. Barely.
Catherine: What the hell do you two think you’re doing!
She instantly begins scolding the two children.
Catherine: Didn’t anyone tell you not to come down here? It’s dangerous!
Child C: I’m sorry…
Child B: I was the one that said we should go and take a look…
Catherine: If I wasn’t there, you’d have been sucked right into that hole.
Catherine: No one would have been able to save you, not even me.
Child B: I’m sorry…
Catherine glares at the pair of whimpering children. Then she throws her arms open, and pulls them into a tight hug.
Catherine: I’m so glad that you’re safe…
The kids wail and bawl as they cling to her.
She gently strokes their backs as they weep into her shoulders.
Natsuki: What the hell is going on…?
As relieved as I am to find the kids safe, I’m equally as confused as to why Catherine is here.
She accompanies us back to the classroom, where she suddenly turns on us.
Catherine: What do you think you’re doing!? Don’t you know how to look after kids properly!?
Minamo: I-I’m sorry!
Ryuuji: Me too!
Catherine: Listen here. Children will do exactly whatever you’ve told them not to do. It’s in their nature.
Catherine: Hell, they’ll even end up doing stuff you would have never thought to warn them about.
Catherine: It doesn’t matter how much you warn them. You have to keep a good watch on them too.
Minamo: We’re sorry…
Catherine: It’s not just dangerous for them, it’s dangerous for you too.
Catherine: I was almost getting sucked into that vortex down there too. If that thing gets you, it’s lights out for you!
Natsuki: Sorry… That’s that fault of my design.
Her scolding is so strangely powerful that everyone, me included, looks suitably cowed.
I feel far more scared than I ever did when she had a knife at my throat.
Catherine: Tsk, you’re all just a bunch of brats after all. Just little kids playing pretend at being teachers, the three of you.
What she’s saying is painfully true, so much so that even I can’t bring myself to say a word. We’ve been so careless that we’ve exposed the little children, and ourselves, to potential death.
We’ve made a huge mistake.
Regardless, I have to clear something up.
Natsuki: Err… Why exactly are you here, though?
Catherine: Ack!
Catherine: I was, err, just passing by…
Ryuuji: Passing by the school you can only get into by boat…?
Catherine: I, umm…
Ririka: I’m sorry…
Minamo: Ririka? Why are you apologizing?
Ririka: …I took her in.
Natsuki: You… What?
Ririka: Ahh, I hope the generator’s finished soon! I wanna read all kinda books, all night!
Ririka: …Huh?
Catherine: Ugh.. Hic! Ahh, I’ve sinned again…
Catherine: …Nngh? Whassat? The school…
Cahterine: Hahahahaha! It’s sinking! Marvellous, haha! Hahahaha!
Catherine: Hrblgrgle!?
Catherine: Ahhh…
Catherine: The old school…
Catherine: …
Catherine: Ahh, there’s another regret to throw on the pile. Ugh, booze, booze, more booze…
Ririka: Get ahold of yourself!
Catherine: Huhhh!?
Minamo: So she was passed out drunk in front of the school, and you took her in…
Ryuuji: You shared your food with her…
Natsuki: And she’s been living here secretly since then?
Catherine: Ririka! Don’t make me sound like some kinda stray dog!
Ririka: Is it bad if Hana-chan stays here?
Minamo: Well , not necessarily…
Everyone looks around uneasily, unsure of how to answer. She really isn’t just some kind of stray we can feed and clothe or something…
Catherine: Don’t worry about me, I’ll make my excuses and go. Thanks for the roof over my head.
She strokes Ririka’s hair, and swiftly makes her way out of the door.
Ririka: Hana-chan…
Natsuki: We should lock up that room, to make sure the kids can’t get in there any more.
Ryuuji: Yeah, and when we actually start using the generator, we can put up a grating so only water can get through.
We hurriedly incorporate a few more safety precautions into our design.
Soon, after a lot of trouble and some significant mistakes, our generator is ready to be installed.
At low tide, we assemble in the classroom to put it into place.
We position the turbine over the hole in the floor, link its axle to the motor, and enclose that, along with the transformer and battery, within a protective fiberglass casing to keep them dry.
Ryuuji: Okay, installation complete.
After Ryuuji finishes hooking up the wires to the battery output, everyone breaks out into applause.
Ririka: Can we use the electricity now?
Child C: Can we put the fan on?
Natsuki: Not yet. This will only start making electricity when the second floor fills up at high tide, and then the water starts going back out.
Natsuki: It’s not going to be generating a massive amount either, so we’ll need to charge the battery properly for while to make sure we’ve got enough power.
Minamo: It’ll be night before we can use it, right?
Natsuki: Exactly, which I suppose is prefect. We’ll test it out then, and I suppose you can have a party or something while we do.
Ryuuji: Pfft, what’s with that tone? As if you’re above having fun.
Minamo: Yeah, I know you want to have a party too, Natsu-kun.
Natsuki: I don’t really care…
ATRI: But you always look like you’re in heaven when it’s the end of the day and you get to chow down on Minamo’s feats.
Everyone snickers at ATRI’s innocent observation.
Natsuki: Okay, okay. I’m looking forward to it, whatever.
Ryuuji: You’re so cute, Natsu.
Ryuuji sidles up to me and playfully knocks his shoulder against mine.
Natsuki: Hey, stop that. Come on, we’ve not done wiring up the lights yet. If we don’t finish by tonight, we won’t be able to test them out.
Ryuuji: Yeah, you’re right. Let’s get that done so we can party hard.
In order to actually light the classroom, we’ll nee to run wiring up from the generator. Ryuuji will be handling that.
Minamo tinkles her handbell.
Minamo: Okay, back to the classroom. We’ve got to make up for all of the studying we’ve missed making this thing.
Child B: Aww, c’mon, can’t we take today off?
Minamo: Nope, no way. Come on, let’s go.
With characteristic energy, we dive right back into normal lessons.
The sun sets on our sinking town.
Natsuki: The tide should just about be going out now…
I head down to the second floor to take a look.
I take particular care, given what happened earlier, not to let myself be dragged by the current.
ATRI: Oh, it’s moving, Natsuki-san.
Although the tide has retreated, the second floor is still full of water as a result of our dam.
Natsuki: It looks like we’ll have plenty of water, but the flow is pretty slow. It’s not making much of a whirlpool.
The turbine isn’t moving at all yet, but I expected that.
It should spin more when the tide is low enough that there’s a bigger gap between the hole and the water level on the floor below.
Natsuki: The problem is making sure there’s enough water left when it starts to turn properly…
I’ve made the hole smaller than it could be in order to slow the flow until then.
If that’s not enough, then blocking the doorway completely with a door that can then be opened to let water into the room is another option. That would require extra construction, though.
Using a sandbag dam to hold in more water might be an easier option to consider.
Natsuki: I guess we’ll see what happens…
After class everyone goes home briefly, only to soon return to the school.
Ryuuji: I hope that thing’s working properly.
Natsuki: If isn’t, we can just adjust it.
Ririka: Heyyy! Guys!
Ririka waves eagerly down at us from the window.
We carefully make our way up to the classroom by flashlight.
Ririka: You’re so late! I was almost gonna turn it on by myself!
If the generator’s working, then the lights should come on if we just flick the switch on the wall.
Ririka must have been fighting that temptation this whole time.
Ryuuji: C’mon, let’s not pretend this is some kinda big event. Just flick the switch.
ATRI: pssh, I can tell you’re the most excited of all of us. I can see your eyes sparkling. Even in the dark, you can’t get past my cyber-senses!
Ryuuji: Shut up, toaster!
ATRI: That is anti-robot discrimination!
Ryuuji: Didn’t anyone ever tell you to respect your elders?
ATRI: I’m older than you, though!
Minamo: So, who’s going to hit the switch?
Ryuuji: Well…
Child C: It’s got to be Mr. Natsuki!
Ririka: Yeah, I think so too. He worked the hardest!
Natsuki: Really? I think Ryuuji and ATRI did most of the work.
Most of the construction was handled by Ryuuji, and we would never have broken through the floor if not for ATRI.
ATRI: We wouldn’t have been able to do anything without your blueprints, though.
Ryuuji: Hell, we wouldn’t have even though to do this without you.
Ryuuji: I could never have come up with a plan like this. Man, you guys from fancy schools really are something.
I sign, and shake my head, if only to hide my blushes.
Natsuki: Well, I suppose I shall humbly take on this duty. I can’t even see the switch, though. ATRI, give me a hand.
ATRI: Affirmative.
She takes me by the hand, and leads me to the wall.
Natsuki: Right, here we go.
The switch clicks.
…
Ririka: Hmm…?
Ririka: It’s on!
It takes a moment, but the light gradually twinkles into life.
Child B: Wow, it’s so bright!
Child C: Whoa, amazing!
The children dance around excitedly.
It’s like it’s the first time they’re ever seen such a simple thing.
Natsuki: Come on, it’s not that big a deal…
Minamo: Ahhh, *sniffle*… It’s so bright. It’s incredible, Natsu-kun…
Ryuuji: What are you crying for? Pathetic… *sniffle*!
Both of them have tears streaming down their cheeks.
ATRI: Why are you crying? Has there been some kind of failure?
ATRI looks at them in utter confusion.
Minamo: It’s just… I haven’t seen it be so bright at night since the seas rose.
Ryuuji: E-Exactly…
Normally the only lighting is town is battery-powered torches, candles, and oil lamps.
They only provide you with the bare minimum of light, which leaves the place quiet and gloomy by night.
As much as I might try to play it down, for people who have been enduring those conditions for many years now this must really be moving.
Minamo: I thought this town was completely doomed. The population’s dwindling, and the school’s shutting down.
Minamo: All of the adults have completely given up, to the point where they won’t even hire us a teacher…
Ryuuji: Yeah… We’ve always just been told to shut up and accept what they tell us. I though we didn’t have the power to change anything by ourselves.
Minamo: Thank you so much, Natsu-kun… I’m so glad you came back!
Natsuki: Just because we’ve lit up one classroom doesn’t mean that we’ve changed the entire town and its future, guys.
In fact, basically nothing has changed at all.
Minamo: I know, but… It’s so bright.
Ryuuji: We’ve done this, all alone, without any help.
I suppose bright lights like these might give the depairing some hope.
And if someone has hope, they can move forward.
No matter how far away that light is, even if it’s a million light years away, someone with hope can walk on-believing that one day they may reach it.
Ririka: I can read books even in the nighttime now!
Child B: It feels like the sun’s still up!
Child C: We can play all night instead of going to sleep!
Minamo and Ryuuji watch the smiling children with moist eyes.
Even I find my usual stony expression relaxing somewhat.
The only person in the room not visibly moved is ATRI. She merely looks on impassively.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: …What’s wrong with you?
ATRI: So people cry when they’re happy…
ATRI: Which means that everyone is happy now. Is that a correct interpretation of the situation?
Natsuki: Yeah, that’s right. You should be happy too. We made this light together, after all.
ATRI: I see… This is a situation in which I should be happy. I don’t possess crying functionality, though.
Natsuki: How about you just smile, then?
ATRI: Roger!
ATRI grins widely, and joins the dancing children.
ATRI: Yayyyyy! It’s so bright!
Ririka: Hahaha, it is, Henchman!
What a wonderful sight…
With everyone present in high spirits, we begin our tidal-powered celebration party.
Child C: Ahhh, it’s so cool with the fan blowing on you.
Child B: I want to get electricity at home too.
Ryuuji: If it was as bright as this at my place I could stay up all night having fun.
Minamo: You can’t do that. You’ll set a bad example for the little ones.
Ririka: is it bad for me to stay up reading books too?
Minamo: as long as it’s not too late, that’s okay.
The party looks like it will go on long into the night, fueled by Minamo’s home cooking and plenty of freshly-squeezed juice.
Eventually, I find myself sitting by the window, spacing out.
ATRI: Are you tired, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: No, I’m fine…
Ryuuji: What’s up, Natsu? Already flagging?
Minamo: You’ve been up every night working on the blueprints, right?
Natsuki: That’s nothing unusual for me. I’ve pulled a lot of all-nighters.
I stick my head out of the window to take a breath of fresh air.
A warm wind tickles my face, tinged with the scent of the sea.
Natsuki: Hmm…?
ATRI: What’s wrong?
Drawn by my gaze, ATRI looks out of the window.
Natsuki: …I think we should go after all.
Minamo: Yeah, maybe it’s time for you to get to bed.
Ryuuji: Seriously, you okay? Should I take you home or something, make sure you get back?
ATRI: Don’t worry about us. Natsuki-san’s got little old high-performance me with him!
ATRI waves him away with a haughty huff.
I take her by the hand, and make a move toward the door.
Natsuki: Okay, we’re going to head out.
Ryuuji: See ya, Natsu.
Minamo: Have a good night, Natsu-kun.
Ririka: Night night!
With ATRI in tow, I leave the party behind.
Catherine: The light’s on… The really managed to make a generator.
Catherine: …
Natsuki: What are you doing out here, exactly?
Catherine: Ack!
Natsuki: ATRI, don’t let her get away!
ATRI: Roger!
ATRI darts in front of the retreating Catherine.
Catherine: What, you gonna get revenge on me for that time I nearly shanked you?
Natsuki: That’s not what I’m here for. I saw you sneaking around, so I thought I’d come out and talk.
Natsuki: If you wanted to party with everyone, you could have just come in. You could now, in fact. It’s not too late.
Catherine: No, I’m getting ready to leave this town anyway.
Catherine: I was just coming to check if Ririka was okay, since she helped me out before.
Natsuki: Don’t you still need to get those debts back from me?
Catherine: I’m writing that off as a failure.
Natsuki: Really now? So much for being a pro beat collector.
Catherine: …I lied about that. If I really was a pro, I’d take the robot by force right here.
ATRI: Hmph, just you try it!
Catherine flinches in the face of the tiny girl’s menacing glare.
Catherine: Nah, I think I’ll pass, thanks. I’m gonna get a new job. I’m not cut out for the debt business.
Natsuki: Your real name’s Hanako, isn’t it?
Catherine: Don’t call me that!
Catherine: I’m Catherine now. I discarded my past long ago.
Natsuki: Do you have any idea what you’ll do now?
It’s going to be hard for her to find a job in this economy.
As I anticipated, for a moment there is nothing but an uneasy silence.
Catherine: I’ll do anything, as long as it keeps me alive.
Natsuki: Even something illegal? I get the feeling you’re not that kind of person.
Natsuki: You were the first to react when the kids were in danger, and you seemed like an old hand when it comes to disciplining them.
Catherine: …I just happened to be there. It’s nothing.
Natsuki: It made me think… I’ve got job that might just be perfect for you.
Catherine: Huh?
She fixes me with a look of guarded curiosity…
The next day.
There’s no more work left to do on our generator.
Our plan now is to keep testing it, and deal with any problems as they come up.
The major modification we want to make is to block the entrance with a door with a metal grate and a lock in order to keep anyone passing by from going in. Ryuuji will be dealing with that.
As such, our busy days of construction have come to an end, and normality returns to the classroom.
Natsuki: Good morning, everyone.
Ririka: Morning, Mr. Natsuki!
Once more I’m stood at the front of the class, playing at being a teacher.
Of course, I don’t have a license or any kind of training.
But, perhaps because of my work on the generator, everyone seems to look at me as if I’m a real teacher.
Natsuki: Before we start today, there’s someone I want to introduce to you.
Natsuki: Come on in.
Ryuuji: Huh? Another transfer student?
Minamo: Ooh, I wonder who it is.
Through the door walks a familiar figure.
A certain gaudily-dressed, cleavage-bearing, woman without a past.
Ririka: Hana-chan!
Catherine: Don’t call me that. The name’s Catherine.
Ryuuji: No, it’s pretty obviously Hana-chan…
Minamo: So you’re Hanako-san, right?
Natsuki: Why do you insist on that name anyway? It’s the most generic ‘Western’ name you could possibly choose.
Catherine: What? I think it’s cool. Makes me sound all mysterious.
I get the feeling this argument is going to go absolutely nowhere, so I quickly move the conversation along.
Natsuki: Anyway, Catherine’s going to be our teacher from now on.
Ryuuji: Seriously!?
Ririka: Really!?
Natsuki: Right?
Catherine: …
Osada Hanako, a.k.a. Catherine, used to be an elementary school teacher in this town.
But the school was swallowed up by the ocean, and she lost her job and quit the town shortly after.
Catherine: Well, a lot of stuff happened…
When I asked her about what happened to Osada Hanako, Catherine stared off into the distance with a faraway look in her eye.
Catherine: When I arrived in the city, I tried my hand at being a private investigator.
Natsuki: Why that?
I didn’t want to interrupt her story, but I couldn’t help myself. Who quits being a teacher and suddenly decides to become a detective.
Catherine: Why do you think? It’s just cool.
Catherine: But the job wasn’t exactly what I thought it would be. I got involved with a lot of dodgy characters back then.
Catherine: There was one guy there in particular who took a particular liking to me, and I ended up, ahem, letting my guard down with him… Turns out her was a conman.
Catherine: He took off with what little money I had, leaving me with nothing but a single repossession order.
Catherine: A client had just given it to me and said ‘turn this into cash.’
Catherine: I wasn’t a debt collector, but I’m the one your granny’s creditors came to.
Natsuki: Why did you say you were a debt collector, then?
Catherine: I thought that might scare you into giving up the cash. If I was just some random woman, I thought you’d skip out on paying it.
Well, that’s what ended up happening in the end, though.
Natsuki: On that subject…
Natsuki: I had no intention of selling ATRI, but…
ATRI: When the time I’ve requested ends, he’s free to sell me.
Natsuki: So that’s the deal. It’s not what I’d like ideally, but when the time comes, I’ll split the proceeds with you.
Catherine: I’ll survive until then, somehow, so don’t worry.
Her face told me that she wasn’t expecting any money from me anymore.
Catherine: I’d need to find a job for that, though. Exactly what kind of thing do you think you’ve got for me?
Natsuki: Whether you’ll be able to actually get a proper salary for this job I can’t promise, but it’ll give you somewhere to live. It’s perfectly suited for your skills, too.
Catherine: Huh, sounds ideal… This isn’t some kind of con, is it?
I pointed toward the half-submerged building with the single light behind her.
Natsuki: I want you to teach here.
Catherine: Well, I’ve got nothing better to do, and it’s dangerous letting you brats hang out here alone.
Catherine: So I may as well do a bit of teaching while I’m looking after you.
Ryuuji: …Right, I get that, but still… ‘Catherine’?
Everyone seems more confused by her naming choices than the fact she’s out teacher now.
Catherine: So, this place got a dormitory or somewhere for me to sleep in?
Natsuki: You should know from your last spell here that that’s not the case. It was comfortable enough for you in this room, wasn’t it?
Catherine: I had a feeling that might be the case…
Ririka: Yayyy, I’m taking in Hana-chan again!
Catherine: I told you not to call me that! And stop making me sound like a stray dog!
Having been a professional teacher, naturally Catherine has a proper teaching license.
It should be possible, with a little discussion with the local government, to get her a proper salary.
The mayor, in fact, is Minamo’s father, so I’ve asked him to talk things through with the other powers that be around here. If things go well, she should end up officially employ here.
And thus another one of the school’s problems might just be solved…
When I arrived back in this town, I had no hopes, no dreams.
I simply needed a place to go after I ran away from The Academy.
I hated the idea of depending on my grandmother, but a drop-out like me hardly had anything else to do. I had no future.
But then, I met her.
This strange, unpredictable robot girl.
A Humanoid who had been sleeping beneath the sea for years upon years.
With out even knowing it, she started to change me…
Every single day since I met her has been so hectic and full of drama.
I’d spent so long stubbornly thinking that I had to live by myself, to have the strength to be alone. Then she came into my life, and I didn’t even have the time to think like that anymore.
Every time it seemed as if I might stumble and fall amid the craziness of those strange days, I found myself instinctively reaching out for her hand.
And it was there that I found a gentleness that I had long forgotten.
ATRI: Hmmhmhmhmmm… ♪
And right now, that hand is holding mine as if it’s the most natural thing in the world. But there’s something supernatural about this small, delicate robot girl, ATRI.
Since she started living with me, I haven’t felt my phantom pain at all.
There are few ways to ameliorate the phenomenon.
One method is to reflect the opposite limb in a mirror, and make it appear as if it’s not missing at all.
The brain will be fooled by this, and the pain will stop.
An artificial limb can help too, by what seems to be a similar mechanism.
Back when I had just lost my leg, I suffered horrendous phantom pains all the time. The cybernetic leg my father gave me completely cured it.
It was such a high-tech model that it felt like I had my real leg back.
But when I was forced to sell it, the agony returned.
ATRI: Natsuki-san, what will we be studying today?
Natsuki: We’ll be reading some literature. I know it’s not your force, but I want you to try thinking about the feelings of the author when they were writing.
ATRI: Argh… How is a robot like me supposed to know how to do that?
Natsuki: The whole point of studying is to learn how to do things you think you can’t.
ATRI promised that she would become my new leg.
And I haven’t felt that phantom pain again since.
Recently, I’ve spent so much time poring over blueprints in the middle of the night that often I find myself collapsing at my desk.
Even without ATRI sleeping in my arms, I haven’t been assailed by those torments.
Natsuki: I guess I owe it to you…
ATRI: Hehehe, finally you’re seeing how useful I can be. I’ve been telling you all this time how high-performance I am.
ATRI: That’s why I’m sure you’re going to absolutely love the lunch I secretly stayed up making for you last night. Look forward to it, okay? ♪
Natsuki: Have you been wasting my food again?
I slam my palm down on the top of her head.
ATRI: Argh! Owwwwww!
Natsuki: I told you, no touching the supplies until you’ve actually learned how to make something non-toxic.
ATRI: I’ll try! I swear I’ll try! Please, let me go!
Every day is lacking in rhyme and reason, and full to the brim with the unexpected.
Yet somehow, it’s starting to become so comefortable.
Ryuuji: Natsu!
Natsuki: Morning, Ryuuji.
As I walk into the classroom, Ryuuji throws his arm around my shoulder. I’m getting used to this too, bizarrely.
ATRI: Grr… You’re been all over him lately, Ryuuji.
Minamo: Ahh, they’re getting along so well.
ATRI: Natsuki-san’s already got me to support him. He doesn’t need you too, Ryuuji!
Ryuuji: So, Natsu, remember what we were talking about before. Y’know, the job?
Natsuki: Yeah?
Ryuuji: I’ve had an idea-why don’t we start up a salvage business?
Natsuki: What, salvaging things for cash?
Ryuuji: Yeah, you’ve got a sub, right?
I have heard of people operating those kind of businesses.
Generally they’re hired to retrieve crew and cargo from sunken ships, or even raise the ships themselves.
Natsuki: I’ve never thought about that. Is there enough of a market for salvage around here…?
Ryuuji: Of course there is!
Ryuuji: Pretty much everyone around here is in a situation like my family. Everyone has something precious or valuable they’d want salvage.
He has a point.
I can still vividly recall the glistening of the tears in Minamo’s eyes when we first turned on the classroom lights.
Most of the people here were forced out of their homes by the ocean, living without electricity in what remains of the town.
Many of them are families who have lived here for generations, likely with precious heirlooms and memories left deep on the ocean floor when they fled in panic.
Ririka: Oooh, what’s going on? Let me help too!
Ryuuji: Oh yeah, you can help too. Earn yourself a little pocket money.
Ririka: Yay, pocket money! Awesome!
If someone had suggested an idea like this to me when I first returned to the island, I would have laughed in their face.
A bunch of kids, running a business? Don’t be foolish.
I thought exactly the same thing Ryuuji did-that children like us didn’t have the power to change anything.
But we have, haven’t we?
Our achievements may be small so far, but we know now that we can charge things.
I never would have found myself answering the way that I do before.
Natsuki: Sounds like it could be interesting. Let’s give it a try.
I can’t for a second imagine what the future might bring.
That’s exactly why it’s interesting.
Ryuuji: Great, then it’s decided. Let’s meet up after school to have a strategy meeting.
Ririka: Yay, strategy!
Catherine: Okay y’all, time for class. Great your butts in your seats.
Catherine enters the classroom ringing the handbell.
Minamo, now the class president, leads us in greeting her.
Minamo: Stand up, everyone. Bow, and… Good morning!
Ririka: Good morning!
ATRI: Good morning!
Catherine: Morning. So, any absences? Hmm, doesn’t look like it. Heh, teaching a class this small’ll be a walk in the park.
Somewhere in the far-off distance, I feel like I can hear the sound of gears spinning.
The turbine? No… I think it might just be the future, turning in a direction I could never have imagined.
Suddenly, a great black shadow spread across my entire world.
My mother slams on the brakes, and the car comes to a spinning, squealing stop, smashing hard against concrete.
Before we can move, the shadow is upon us.
Enveloping us, weighting down on us, becoming everything.
The thunderous roar of the shadow fades to a silence so baneful I can hear my heart pounding in my ears.
Natsuki: Mom…!
Natsuki: Mom, where are you!?
My fingers scrape through the dirt as I try to crawl in desperation toward her.
Natsuki: Argghh!?
Then I feel it. A pain like nothing I’ve ever felt before.
My right leg is buried in darkness, completely immobile.
It’s like a great ravenous beats has crushed it in its jaws, pulling me back as frantically as I try to escape.
Natsuki: Help… Mom… Anyone!
I reach out for a hand to save me, but it finds nobody.
Natsuki: My leg… It hurts, it hurts!
No one can reach me here, drowning in these pitch-black depths, the darkness filling my agonized body with each scream.
Natsuki: Please… Anyone… Help…!
Then, as I feel myself slipping into the embrace of oblivion, a glint of light. With it… a hand.
Natsuki: (Mom…)
The dark world fades into nothing.
When I wake, I’m in a hospital bed.
They tell me that my mother is dead, and my leg is gone.
I share vacantly across the sterile white room. He is nowhere to be seen.
Nonko: Your father is busy saving the world.
Nonko: If he can’t save the world, he can’t save you. You’re a smart boy, you must understand that.
That’s right… If the world can’t be saved, neither can I.
My father is doing it for my sake.
…I tried so hard to convince myself that that was the truth.
Assailed by the irrationality of it all, the absurdity of what I was subjected to, and now abandoned to this senseless loneliness, I forced myself to believe it.
I have to save the world.
If I can’t save the world, how can I be saved?
Natsuki: Here we are.
I bring the ship to a stop some 300 meters off shore.
Next to us is a buoy, placed here by us yesterday.
Ryuuji: Right, let’s get to work.
Ririka: Yeahhh, let’s do this!
The three of us busily prepare to start diving.
Soon, we find ourselves at the bottom of the sea.
Although we’re not particular deep, it’s dim and quiet down here.
The cramped confined of the sub’s cockpit always have their own particular oppressive atmosphere.
Natsuki: (No matter how many times I dive in this thing, I don’t think I’ll never get used to this…)
There’s always the nasty little worry poking at the back of my mind that my leg is about to start aching.
Natsuki: (ATRI will be at school right now. It’s not like I don’t know where she is.)
I feel my chest tightening, trapped down here in this tin can… Until I hear a voice come through the radio.
Ryuuji: How’s it going, Natsu?
Natsuki: I’ve found the house. The roof has rotted off and drifted away, so it won’t be difficult to get in.
Ryuuji: It should be in the bedroom, second room in from the entrance. It’s in the chest of drawers, top one.
Natsuki: Roger.
Purging the front ballast tanks do dip the Serpens Albus’ nose, I dive down through the open roof.
Natsuki: Hmm, this looks like the chest…
I pull the top drawer open with the manipulator arm.
It comes out with surprising ease. Had it not, we would have had to lift the entire thing out with the crane.
It’s filled with all manner of things, but the arm’s grabbers aren’t sensitive enough to pick through them.
Natsuki: I really should have brought ATRI down here…
I would have, but I was concerned about letting her spend too much time underwater. She’s not built for underwater operations.
Plus, it seems like she has, umm, “club activities” today.
Natsuki: I’ve found the drawer, and I’m bringing it up.
Natsuki: Get ready to grab the item out.
Ryuuji: Roger. Ririka, get the net. We’ll fish out what we need, so bring me the one with the longest handle.
Ririka: Yessir!
The transmission cuts off, and I prepare to surface.
This involves another round of managing the ballast tanks.
When surfaced, the tanks are filled with air, which is then purged and replaced with water when you need to dive. This reduces the sub’s buoyancy, and causes it to sink.
In order to surface again, you need to purge the tanks of water.
This is done by flushing them with compressed air.
It’s stored in cylinders attached to the sub, but a vessel this size can only hold a limited amount. Running out means you’re unable to surface, so you have to limit yourself to one dive per voyage.
Of course, if for some reason I did run out at the bottom of the sea, I have the crane to pull me up. That’s something I’d rather not have to rely on, however.
I pull on levers and flick switches, and air rushes into the ballast tanks.
While Ryuuji is checking we’ve got what we need, I unlock the hatch and climb out.
Natsuki: Ryuuji, can you handle the docking lines?
Ryuuji: Roger!
I wait in the cockpit while he ties the lines to the ship.
Ryuuji: Good work out here, Natsu.
Ririka: Here’s your stick!
Ririka hands me my cane, which she’d been looking after.
Natsuki: Thanks, kid.
Standing on the deck on my three legs, I finally feel freed from that metal cage.
Ririka: Are you okay? You look kinda bad.
Natsuki: I’m just a little tired.
Natsuki: (I didn’t think being this far away from ATRI would leave me feeling so jittery…)
This is the first time since we started living together that I’ve been away for her for an extended period of time.
I suppose this all began with that night when we turned on the lights for the first time.
An awful lot has happened since then…
Originally, I thought the generator would just end up being used so that Ririka could read books at night.
I didn’t think that something that we’d started as just a little science experiment would end up producing the results it has.
Yoko: Ugh, I totally don’t get this! I tried studying it at home, but it doesn’t make any sense. Minamoooo, helpppp!
Minamo: I don’t really understand that part either, to be honest.
Yoko: Tsk, thought as much.
Minamo: W-Well excuse me!
Natsuki: Let me take a look.
Yoko: O-Okay… It’s, umm, this bit, ahem…
This is practically the only place in town where you can see any light glowing after sundown.
That single little bulb shining away in the distance has become big news all around town.
People are even stopping by after dark just to see it.
And that’s not the only thing around here that’s drawing a crowed.
Catherine: Forget your homework again and you’re getting the full force of my special Catherine-style punishment, you hear?
Tooru: Okaaaay.
Catherine has been officially employed by the local district. And the return of a teacher to the school has helped to pull in a lot more students.
Now, across all of the school years, we’ve assembled twenty whole pupils.
ATRI: It’s getting pretty lively around here.
Minamo: There’s still a lot more children in the town, so when people hear about how things are improving around here I’m sure we’ll get even more kids turning up.
Minamo smiles widely.
Now that we have enough students, we’ve split teaching duties such that I’m teaching the high schoolers and Catherine takes care of the younger years.
That being said, I’m not really a teacher. Our class is largely self-directed, with me just on hand to help anyone who has a question.
Natsuki: So, do you think you get it now?
Yoko: Yeah, I think so. Thanks, Natsuki-kun. You’re super good at explaining stuff.
Natsuki: Really?
Ryuuji: Yeah, you break things down really well. My grades are gonna be through the roof compared to before.
Yoko: Yeah, you’re sooo much better at this than my last teacher… And way cooler.
At first I thought it was difficult to explain things in a way that the person listening can process, but it’s something I’ve gradually worked out some tricks for.
That’s something I don’t think I could have even done when I was at The Academy.
Back then, it was fine if only I understand something. It was simply other people’s fault if they didn’t understand what I meant.
Here, I’m surrounded by kids of all ages and academic abilities. They all have their own strengths and weaknesses, and their own ways of thinking about things.
I’ve just been playing at being a teacher, but at the same time it’s taught me how important that role is.
ATRI: Natsuki-san, I’m done!
ATRI waves frantically at me, finished with the work I set her.
Yoko: Wow, you’re so fast, Atricchi!
ATRI: Heh, that’s just how high performance I am.
Natsuki: Let’s take a look… Yep, all correct. Your methods look good too.
ATRI: Only the most high-performance methods for me!
Ryuuji: You’re a robot. Math should be the one thing we don’t have to worry about with you.
Natsuki: You say that, but…
She’s a household robot who can’t do anything around the house. I’ve learned to expected the worst from her.
Yet she’s actually a pretty fast learner, particularly when it comes to math and science. She can remember almost everything you teacher her, which gives me a surprising amount of satisfaction.
She’s not technically a student here, but if she was, she’d be one of the best.
Legally, she’s just my support robot, but that hasn’t stopped her blending in perfectly with the rest of the class.
Catherine rings her handbell.
Catherine: Okay, that’s if for today. If you’re on cleaning duty, stay after class and make sure this place is spotless, okay?
As everyone is unwinding at the end of the day, Minamo rushes up to me with a sudden announcement.
Minamo: We’re starting a school club!
She looms over me, grinning and breathing raggedly with excitement.
Natsuki: You mean, umm… that thing where you stay after school, voluntarily…?
Minamo: Exactly! We had them when I was in middle school, and now we’ve got more students I thought I’d start one up again!
A lot of schools did used to have clubs, particular sports clubs, I suppose.
The great sea rise dramatically reduced the amount of available land for such frivolous things, though.
Natsuki: What kind of club are you thinking of?
Minamo: We’re making a cooking club! I’ll be the president, and my first club member is ATRI-chan here.
ATRI: I pledge my undying loyalty, President Minamo.
Minamo: ‘President Minamo’… That’s got a ring to it.
Natsuki: You’re involved with this too?
ATRI: If you’ll give me permission, of course.
Minamo: ATRI-chan really, really wants to make you some delicious food, Natsu-kun.
Ryuuji: Heh, sounds like some newlywed going to cooking classes so she can please her new hubby.
ATRI: Ehehe…
Natsuki: (No matter how good a student she might be, I struggle to imagine her getting better at cooking of all things.)
Memories suddenly flash across my mind, horrendous, arcane, nauseating picture of things that could hardly be called “food”…
Natsuki: …Do your best.
ATRI: Yayyy, I can tell you’re really excited to see what I can do! You can count on me!
She gives me a happy little salute.
Natsuki: (Maybe not “excited”…)
Ryuuji: Gah, I’m kinda jealous. Natsu, let’s start a club too!
Natsuki: What kind of club?
Ryuuji: Gotta be a music club, right? We’ll start a band, and have the chicks falling all over us.
Ryuuji: I’ll teach your guitar, dude, don’t worry.
Minamo: Do you, umm, want the ‘chicks.’ Natsu-kun?
Natsuki: Not particular, no.
Minamo: I knew you’d say that! You’re not a creep like Ryuuji-chan, after all.
Ryuuji: Shut up, idiot. Well, Natsu’s already go his own harem, I suppose.
He chuckles, and glances past Minamo and ATRI to where Ririka and Catherine are cleaning on the other side of the classroom.
Minamo: I-I’m not part of any kind of ‘harem’!?
ATRI: Harem…?
Ririka: Yay, I love Mr. Natsuki!
Catherine: H-Hey, I’m not into him like that! Honestly, what are you making me say? Damn brats…
Ryuuji: Heh, just calling it as I see it. Hey, you eavesdropping on our conversation over there?
Natsuki: If we’re going to be working our salvage business, we won’t have time for club activities.
Ryuuji: Ahh, good point.
Natsuki: Right, come on, we don’t have the time to be sitting around here chatting.
Ryuuji: Gotcha. C’mon Ririka, we’re heading off.
Ririka: Wait a minute, we’re still cleaning!
Catherine: Will you be okay with just you kids? I could come too.
Ryuuji: I ain’t letting you try to muscle in and take a cut of our cash, Hana-chan.
Catherine: I would never! And stop calling me that!
ATRI: Will you be okay without me, Natsuki-san?
Ryuuji: He’ll be fine. I can look after this guy.
He throws his arm around my shoulder again.
ATRI: Hmph, I wasn’t asking you! Stop being so touchy-feely with him!
She forcibly pulls him off of me, despite his resistance…
I don’t quite know why, but she seems to react like this whenever she sees the two of us getting along.
Natsuki: We’ll come by to pick you up afterward, so you just enjoy your club. Take care of her, Minamo.
Minamo: Okay, will do.
ATRI: …May fortune smile upon you.
With that slightly off-putting turn of phrase, she bids us goodbye.
So while ATRI is cooking, we’re here diving.
Natsuki: (I really didn’t think I’d be the one suffering the most from being alone, though…)
When I don’t have ATRI holding my hand, I suddenly become acutely aware of how alien my prosthetic leg feels.
Ryuuji: Right, let’s get out of here.
Ryuuji weights anchor, and we set off toward the shore.
I sit on the deck, exhausted.
Ryuuji: Hey, Natsu.
Natsuki: Yeah?
Ryuuji: You know Minamo’s got a thing for you, right?
Natsuki: …
Natsuki: Why are you bringing that up all of a sudden?
I’m taken aback by the abrupt question, but I naturally don’t let it show on my stony face at all.
Ryuuji: Man, you’re so easy to read. You’re red as a tomato.
He grins at me, and I turn away with a grumble.
Ryuuji: Did you seriously not realize?
Natsuki: It’s not that I didn’t, but…
Obviously I’ve noticed that Minamo seems to pay particular attention to me, and tries to be exceptionally friendly.
But I was hesitant to assume that she’d posses those kinds of feeling for me.
Ryuuji: Dude, everyone can see it. It’s basically written on her face. Right, Ririka?
Ririka: When she looks at you, her eyes are like a princess looking at her prince.
Ririka: At least that’s what it looks like going by the stuff I’ve read in books.
Natsuki: I think you’d be a better match for her, though, Ryuuji.
To be honest, I’d thought that he might have had that kind of relationship with her.
Ryuuji: Huh, I guess no one’s told you that we’re cousins yet.
Oh. Well, that changes things.
Ryuuji: So don’t hold back on my account, dude. If anything, she’s too nice of a girl, that one. She doesn’t know how to think badly of anyone.
Ryuuji: I’m worried she’ll end up being taken for a ride by some sketchy type. I’d prefer it was you taking care of her.
I don’t quite think that’s true. She seems like the type that would say “no” before anything went too badly for her, but I can understand his concern as her relative.
Natsuki: Even if you say that…
Ryuuji: What, she not good enough for you? Don’t wanna make this sound weird, but I think she’s pretty fine. Her family are big shots around here, and she’s pretty well off.
Natsuki: Well, I guess so…
It’s true that she’s cute, and a nice girl.
She’s always willing to put up with me, when even I’m repulsed by how I act sometimes.
I’d be lucky to have a girl like her.
Ririka: Huh… That’s weird. You suddenly don’t look like you’re a hitman anymore. Your eyes are completely different…
Ririka peers curiously at my face.
Ryuuji: I know, right? He’s a big softy after all, this dude.
Ririka: Aww, that’s so cute, Mr. Natsuki!
I’ve almost got used to Ryuuji calling me “cute” by now, but now even Ririka’s saying it…
Ryuuji: You know that Minamo’s probably making dinner for you right now. You, specifically.
Natsuki: That’s not right. She’ll be making if for everyone.
Ryuuji: Nope, I’d bet my Astrocaster on it. And you know my guitar’s worth more to me than my life.
Ryuuji: You lucky, lucky boy, Natsu.
Natsuki: Stop teasing me, you moron…
Tomita-san: Thank you, thank you, Ryuu-chan!
When we hand over the item, a watch, to Tomita-san the shopkeeper, her thanks us over and over again with tears welling in his eyes.
Tomita-san: This watch was a heirloom handed down to me from my grandpa. I never thought I’d see it again…
Even after so many years sunken beneath the sea, the dirty, scratched watch is still keeping perfect time.
Tomita-san: Really, I can’t thank you enough, Ryuu-chan.
Ryuuji: Don’t thank me, old man. It was Natsu here who went and got the thing.
Natsuki: Err, nice to meet you…
I’m not quite sure what tone to take with a man crying over a watch in front of me.
Tomita-san: Oh, are you that young professor I’ve heard so much about?
Natsuki: Young… what?
Ryuuji: Yep, this is the guy who built the generator and it up the school.
Tomita-san: I see, I see, and now you’ve got me Grandpa’s watch back too.
It appears that I’m a “young professor” now.
The man takes me by the hand and shakes it so vigorously that I think my arm might come off.
Ririka: I helped too! I helped make the generator too!
Tomita-san: Ohh, good girl, good girl…
He hands over the fee we discussed, as well as a little something extra.
Tomita-san: Here, take this with you too. We just picked it earlier.
It’s a large, shiny watermelon.
Ririka: Whoaaaa, that’s huge!
Ryuuji: Seriously? You don’t mind us having this?
Tomita-san: We’ve got a big ol’ harvest this year, so go ahead.
Tomita-san: By the way, Professor.
Natsuki: Yes?
Tomita-san: There any chance you could make a generator for me too? It’s pretty hard here without electricity, y’know?
Natsuki: That might be tough. But I could probably make you a small wind turbine or something…
It doesn’t look like there’s anything around here that could be used to generate power the way the water around the school can.
Tomita-san: Ah, I see. That’s a shame…
Ryuuji: Anyway, see ya, Tomita-san.
Our job done, we head out of the store.
Ryuuji: Not much of an earner, that…
Rifling through the money we’ve earned, Ryuuji sighs.
Ryuuji: Take off our expenses and we’re basically making nothing but pocket change.
Since we’re just a bunch of kids, we’ve set our prices pretty low.
Every dive costs us a significant amount in both fuel costs and compressed air.
Our profit margins aren’t exactly the biggest.
Ryuuji: Sorry, Natsu. I know you need the money…
Natsuki: It’s fine, everyone’s hard up. It’s just nice to see people happy.
Natsuki: Plus, we’re making a profit in the form of watermelons, at least.
Ryuuji: …There’s something different about you lately, y’know?
Natsuki: Hmm, how do you mean?
Ryuuji: You’ve gotten all… nice. When we first met I would have never imagined you smiling like this.
Natsuki: I guess I’ve just got used to this town, really.
I’ve had a lot more contact with the people around here since we built the generator.
I’m still not the best communicator, but I’ve started to realize how warm and accepting they are.
Ryuuji: I think it’s good. I like seeing you like this.
I really don’t know how to react to someone saying they like, well anything about me.
But it does make me happy…
Ryuuji: Heh, you’ve gone bright red again. You’re so cute, Natsu!
Natsuki: Shut up…
Ryuuji: Man, I wish we could light up this whole town, though. This place would be a lot more fun if we had power.
Ryuuji: Can’t we make, like, a huge generator and make the whole place as bright as it used to be?
Right now, with the sun setting, the streets are completely dark and drab. Hardly anyone is outside.
I remember how the town looked when I was a child. Even at night, everywhere was lit up with colorful lights and full of lively, happy people.
Natsuki: I don’t think that’s possible. If we mass-produced a lot of smaller generators we could at least light the town up, but I don’t know if we could ever make this town like it used to be…
Ryuuji: Man, if even you think that…
To tell the truth, the more I’ve come to understand this town, the more I can see that it’s doomed to disappear before too long.
Soon, the point will come where it can’t survive any more.
Like everything, like this world as a whole, it will return to dust.
Unless the government does something to save us, we’re on the path to ruin. Life will become more and more simple, more primitive.
Natsuki: (Maybe that wouldn’t be so bad…)
I look down at the heavy, rotund melon Ririka is carrying.
Ryuuji: Minamo!
Minamo: Ah, there you are. Welcome back, you three.
ATRI: Natsuki-saaaan!
As soon as she sees me, ATRI beams with a wide grin and rushes up to me.
She immediately grabs onto my sleeve as she always does.
Natsuki: Have you been good for Minamo?
ATRI: Of course!
Minamo: She’s tried really, really hard… Even though she’s even worse at cooking than I expected.
ATRI: I’ve learned a lot now, so next time I’m sure that I’ll do better…
Natsuki: This means I’m going without dinner tonight, doesn’t it?
I sign theatrically, hiding a chuckle.
Minamo: Oh, about that…!
Minamo nervously holds a box out before me.
Minamo: I made an extra dinner, so if you’d like…
Inside the box I can see a perfectly round Hamburg steak, and some boiled vegetables.
Ryuuji sidles up to me with a grin, and elbows me in the side.
Ryuuji: What did I say?
Natsuki: …Shut up.
Minamo: Hmm?
Natsuki: Thanks, Minamo. You’re a lifesaver.
Ririka: Mmm, that looks delicious.
Minamo: I’ve made one for you too, Ririka.
Ririka: Yay! Thanks, Minamo-chan!
Ryuuji: Hey, could you cut this up for us too? You want a bit, right, Natsu.
Ryuuji places the watermelon on the desk with a satisfying thud.
Minamo: Whoa, that’s huge. Where did you get that?
Ryuuji: Out client gave it to us. C’mon, let’s crack this thing open.
Catherine: Just how long are you brats going to hang around here?
Catherine: It doesn’t matter if there’s electricity or not. You’ve got to leave some time. Your parents will wonder where you’ve got to.
Ryuuji: Ah, Hana-chan, perfect timing.
Catherine: Don’t call me that!
Ririka: We’re gonna have watermelon! You want some too?
Catherine: Wow, that’s massive. Where did you get something like that?
Ririka: We got if from our job!
Catherine: You’re getting paid in fruit…?
ATRI: Seems like it, but who cares? Let’s eat!
Natsuki: Why did they program you to eat so much? You don’t even need the nutrients…
ATRI: Delicious things just make you happy!
Minamo: Hehe, hold on a second. I’ll get a knife.
Catherine: Ugh, whatever. Just make this quick, okay?
Everyone wolfs down the watermelon Minamo carves up.
It has such a simple, nostalgic flavor…
My radio is blaring out some old rock song.
The fuzzy guitars and rumbling bass are intensely irritating, and yet somehow comforting.
This is one of those bands Ryuuji is obsessed with, I believe.
Natsuki: Wow, that was good…
I let out a satisfied sigh as I finish off the dinner Minamo made for me.
ATRI: It was pretty tasty. Watermelon and Hamburg steak , both delicious. I should log that before I forget.
ATRI opens up her logbook.
It’s almost half-full already, having been used both for her logs and her work in class.
Natsuki: What do you actually write in that thing?
I try to lean over and take a look, but she raises her hand in front of my face.
ATRI: No looking!
Natsuki: What’s wrong with me looking at them? A master’s got the right to look at his robot’s logs, right?
Logs are intended to be examined for errors should a Humanoid need maintenance, after all. If no else can read them, they’re pointless.
ATRI: According to my memory banks, reading a girl’s daily logs is forbidden conduct.
Natsuki: …
I look at her with puppy-dog eyes.
ATRI: D-Don’t make the face. I’m not letting you see. It’s embarrassing!
Well, I suppose I can’t force her to show me if she’s that against it.
ATRI: So no looking, okay!
Natsuki: Right, understood.
I lie down on the bed, pouting.
ATRI glances over at me as she writes.
ATRI: “When I told Natsuki-san he couldn’t read my logs, her started  sulking”…
Natsuki: Hey, you don’t need to log that.
ATRI: I have to write everything, just as it happened.
She finished, and stashes the notebook inside her dress. She must have a pocket in there or something.
ATRI: Cheer up, Natsuki-san. You can hug me all night, if you want.
Natsuki: Wh-Why would I do something that embrassing?
ATRI: You do it every night, though!
Natsuki: Well, I’m not doing it any more. From now on, I’m sleeping on my own.
ATRI: Tsk, you’re such a petulant child sometimes.
Natsuki: Whatever. Weren’t you supposed to be looking for your lost memories, anyway?
ATRI: Oh? I am, though.
Natsuki: It looks more like you’re just spending every day going to school and studying, and then coming home.
ATRI: Indeed. I don’t have any other ideas, after all.
Natsuki: Are you really all right with that?
I glance over at the calendar.
About one third of it is crossed out.
That means there’s only thirty days left before ATRI’s deadline.
Natsuki: Why don’t you read your old logs or something?
ATRI should have been recording everything that happened to her since she was activated. They’d probably have something in them related to the last order she was given by my grandmother.
Just as I’m about to make that point, ATRI suddenly flips her dress up in front of me.
I’m momentarily stunned, until I realize that she’s trying to show me the pocket inside.
ATRI: I lost my logs when you salvage me. I might have dropped them in the capsule, or in the sea.
ATRI: Either way, they’ve probably been ruined by the water.
Natsuki: I-I see. Could you, umm, stop lifting your skirt?
Her petite tummy and poofy panties are difficult not to stare at.
ATRI: Why are you embarrassed? You see me in my underwear every night when we go to bed.
Natsuki: Well, you’re not waving them in my face like that normally… And even then, I’m still embarrassed.
ATRI: Oh, you are? Well, I’ve learned something…
ATRI drops her shirt back down.
Why am I blushing over a robot? Jeez…
Well, I suppose she does look and act completely like a girl.
Most scholars would agree that A.I. can’t be said to actually possess a soul, but spending so much time around ATRI almost makes me think otherwise.
ATRI: …Peep!
Natsuki: H-Hey, stop lifting your dress like that.
ATRI: I was testing out what I learned.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Seems like it’s accurate. You’re gone all red again.
Natsuki: No I haven’t!
ATRI: Hehe, I bet you really want to use me all night again now, don’t you?
Natsuki: Do you have to word it like that!? Idiot!
ATRI grins at me as I splutter in consternation.
She’s really enjoying teasing me.
If these aren’t real emotions, then what else could they be?
Natsuki: A-Anyway, if there’s anything you need help with, just ask.
ATRI: Oh?
Natsuki: With searching for your memories, I mean.
Natsuki: They’ve got to be important to you, right? So I’ll help find them.
ATRI: …Great. Thank you.
Her warm smile makes my face burn red again for some reason, so I swiftly turn my back to her.
It’s nighttime and almost time to sleep. And yet , I’m not afraid at all now.
I wish I could sleep this soundly forever.
Safe and comfortable, in ATRI’s arms…
Natsuki: Minamo.
The next morning, I stop Minamo in the hall at school.
Minamo: Morning, Natsu-kun.
Natsuki: Morning. Thanks for the dinner last night. It was delicious.
Minamo: Really?
ATRI: Yes, absolutely. My high-sensitivity taste sensors judged it four stars out of live, only lacking-
Natsuki: Shut it, toaster.
I thwack her on the back of the head and push her away.
ATRI: Grrr, what was that for!?
Minamo: If you want, I’ll make you something else too. It’s the least I can do as the president of the cooking club. ♪
Natsuki: I’d love that, but you don’t have to go out of your way…
Minamo: Oh, it’s completely fine! You’re always working so hard, and I want to help you out.
ATRI: President Minamo!
Minamo: Yes, Comrade ATRI?
ATRI: I want to make those Hamburg steaks like you do! Will you teach me?
Minamo: Why of course. As the president, it is my sworn duty!
The two of them continue their little roleplay as we enter the classroom.
Natsuki: Minamo’s such a nice girl…
Ryuuji: I know, right! I told ya.
At lunch, Ryuuji and I sit together on the roof.
It used to be quite vague there exactly lessons ended and breaks began, but Catherine has the school day properly scheduled now.
I generally bring a lunch that I’ve bought from the market on the way here.
If I didn’t, I’d end up having to eat the … ”food” ATRI prepares.
Ryuuji: If you want to date her, you should just ask. She’s not gonna say no.
Ryuuji: Go on, you’ve got, like, the perfect chance at the sweet life here, dude.
I learn over the railing, gazing far into the distance.
On the far-flung horizon, enormous billowing clouds rise like mountains, their shapes almost dissolving into the endless ocean.
Natsuki: …I already have someone I love.
Ryuuji: Seriously? Who-
Ryuuji: Ahh, I get you. You’re talking about that older girl you were into, right?
Natsuki: …
I simply silently stare at the sky.
I just don’t know how to handle conversations like this. I’m completely new to them.
Ryuuji: Heh, I see, so you’re still hung up on her.
Natsuki: I-It’s not like a really serious thing, but, well, I still think about her.
Ryuuji: How old was this girl?
Natsuki: I’m not sure, but I think she was about five years older than me. She was really quiet, but so pretty…
Ryuuji: Five years… Huh, so that would make her like twenty-three, four? Hmm, do we know any girls that age? What about… Hana-chan?
Natsuki: Not a chance.
My reply is instant.
I am absolutely not letting him corrupt my pure, innocent memories like that.
Ryuuji: I’m serious, though. Apparently she was a lot more… normal back then, I hear.
Ryuuji: Women change really quick, y’know? My sister’s the same.
Natsuki: No, I’m sure it wasn’t her. This girl was more… translucent?
So many horrible things happened to me back then that I’m not really able to remember many things in detail.
Conversely, that somehow makes some fleeting impressions stronger.
Ryuuji: You’ve not tried to find her?
I shake my head.
Ryuuji: Tch, dude, you’ve gotta be more assertive. You make generators and stuff, which adults can’t even do, so you should be able to manage that. Heh, that part of you’s cute though, I guess.
Ryuuji sighs and mumbles to himself.
Ryuuji: Right, I’ve made a decision. I’m going to find this girl for you!
Natsuki: Hang on a second. You don’t have to do that…
Ryuuji: It’s fine, I owe you one. Besides, I know a thing or two about the best beauties in town, y’know?
Ryuuji: Can’t guarantee we’ll find her, but it’s worth a try, right?
Natsuki: I guess…
He’s right. I probably should do something about these lingering feelings I have for her.
I decide to take him up on his offer.
And thus, after school we put into action “Operation Natsu’s Mystery MILF.” I don’t need to say that I didn’t come up with the name.
Ryuuji: Target one: Marie the Flower Girl. Twenty-three years old. A soft, gentle beauty. Ring any bells?
The two of us peek into the florist’s stall from the shadow of a building.
The girl’s delicate, curly hair seems almost see-through, glimmering in the sunlight.
But nothing about her face strikes me.
Natsuki: Hmm… No, it’s not her.
Ryuuji: Okay, onto the next target.
We sneak through the shadows over to the second-hand book store.
A bespectacled girl sits behind the counter, reading a book and ignoring the customers completely.
Ryuuji: Target two: The Princess of the Literary Labyrinth, the owner’s daughter. They say she won’t even look at a guy unless he reads at least a hundred books a month.
Ryuuji: That probably wouldn’t be a problem for you, would it?
Natsuki: She’s pretty, for sure, but I don’t really read that many books, and she’s not the girl I remember anyway.
Ryuuji: Dammit, I thought we’d finally found a guy who could sweep the princess off her feet. Tsk!
I don’t think that was the original point of this exercise, but Ryuuji seems to be enjoying himself.
We quickly move on to the next target.
From the shadows, we peek out at a girl sitting on the terrace outside of a pub. Even though it’s still daytime, the pub is open, and the girl is visibly blind drunk.
Ryuuji: Target three: The Sloshed Siren. An alcoholic goddess who pretty much lives in the pub. She says she’ll live by the booze, and die by the booze.
Ryuuji: She might be constantly plastered, but she’s no easy lay-you’ve gotta beat her in a hundred-shot tequila drink-off before she’ll even consider going home with you.
Natsuki: How would I do that? I can’t even legally drink.
Ryuuji: Well, putting that aside, how about her? You said ‘translucent,’ and she’s definitely only half there.
Natsuki: Well, that’s for sure, but…
I’m struggling to believe the girl I knew back then would grow up into a drunkard.
Natsuki: …I think her eyes are the wrong color.
Ryuuji: Oh, you remember her eyes? What were they like?
Natsuki: They were… Red. Deep crimson, like rubies. They were so beautiful.
That’s about the most concrete thing I can remember about her.
Ryuuji: Ruby-red eyes, huh?
ATRI: …
Ryuuji: Right, only to the next one. Target four: ‘Mommy,’ the grocer’s daughter…
Ono by one, we make our way down a huge list of candidates.
The grocer’s daughter, the postwoman, the farm girl…
Every single one of them is just ever so slightly different from the girl in my memories.
Ryuuji: Gah, so it wasn’t the Mermaid of the Marina either… Man, I’m all out of ideas here.
Ryuuji: Hmm, wait, three is one more. It might be my big sister. Huh, get with her, and I’d be, what, your big brother? Brother-in-law?
Ryuuji furrows his brow and starts mumbling something under his breath.
Minamo’s Mother: Oh my, if it isn’t Ryuu-chan.
Ryuuji: Oh, hey, Mrs. Kamishiro.
Minamo’s Mother: You don’t need to be so formal. I’ve seen you naked, you know? ♪
This lady, feigning annoyance and then giggling afterwards, is Minamo’s mother.
Judging by the heaving shopping bag she’s carrying, she’s on the way home after getting groceries.
She’s significantly older than the girls we’ve been stalking all afternoon, but she possesses the same beauty her daughter does.
Minamo’s Mother: Oh, Natsu-kun, it’s been such a long time since I saw you. How are you?
Natsuki: You know, getting by. Thank you for making those lunches for me before. They really kept me going.
Minamo’s Mother: Oh, you’re welcome. I know things have been tough since Nonko-san passed away, so I’m always happy to help.
Minamo’s Mother: If you wanted to, I’d gladly let you be my son-in-law and mooch off of me as much as you wanted to. Haha!
Natsuki: Hahaha…
Minamo’s Mather: Or maybe you could my live-in lover, if you prefect you ladies a little more experienced?
Natsuki: Haha… Ha…
I’m trying to laugh, but it’s coming out awfully hollow. There’s something… carnivorous in her eyes.
She looks a lot like Minamo, but she has the kind of sultry air I could never imagine her daughter giving off.
Shea has the particular sensuality of an adult woman. The kind of erotic appeal that I could be swallowed up by…
ATRI: Grr… My sensors detect a threat to Natsuki-san’s bodily integrity!
Her cowlick boinging up and down like an antenna, ATRI forces herself between the advancing cougar and me.
Yes, ATRI. She’s been here the whole time, silently following us on our mission.
ATRI: I don’t know who you are, but anyone that’s a danger to Natsuki-san has to answer to me!
Minamo’s Mother: My… Are you ATRI-chan!?
Minamo’s Mother: I’ve heard so much about you from Minamo. Ahhh, you really are so, so cute!
ATRI: Arrghh, stop stroking my head like that!
Minamo’s Mother: I keep telling her to bring you around. You could move in with us, and be like a little sister to her! She’d love that, and I’m sure dad would too.
Minamo’s Mother: How about it, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: I-I am Natsuki-san’s leg! I can’t Argh!
Wow… Even ATRI is being completely overpowered. That’s real cougar strength for you.
Ryuuji: Jeez, Mrs. Kamishiro, put the poor kid down.
Minamo’s Mother: Oh my, sorry. I got a little carried away with my teasing.
ATRI: Ughhh… Finally, I’m free…
Minamo’s Mother: I meant it when I said I’m always here to help, though. If you’re ever in trouble, just come to me.
Natsuki: That’s nice to know. Thank you.
ATRI: Urghhh…
Minamo’s Mother: And you’re always welcome to become part of the family too. A cutie like Natsu-kun is just my type. ♪
Giggling to herself, she trots off.
Ryuuji: Man, she’s really something, isn’t she?
Natsuki: I felt like a bug who’s got a little too close to a venus fly trap…
ATRI: What’s wrong with that woman!? She’s a terrifying!
I have seen a glimpse of the adult world, and I never want to venture into it again.
We wander through the town checking out the last few leads Ryuuji comes up with, but we don’t come across my first love.
We end up sitting on a bench in front of the old candy shop.
Ryuuji: I’m guessing that it’s pretty likely she left town.
Natsuki: …
It’s been there years since the waters started to rise particularly quickly around here.
The town started to sink by several dozen centimeters at day, until it was covered in around ten meters of water.
At the time, a lot of people were optimistic that the waters would eventually recede.
But the sea simply wouldn’t stop rising, and eventually most of the coastal cities of the world were inundated.
The rise was slow enough that it wasn’t like other natural disasters such as tsunamis or typhoons. There were very few direct casualties.
A lot of people who evacuated their homes did end up with nowhere else to go, however.
This town also ended up with no electricity, which caused even people whose house weren’t swallowed up to leave.
Ryuuji: Man, sometimes you just want a nice, cold soda, don’t you?
Ryuuji sighs, sipping on his room-temperature can of fruit juice.
Candy Store Owner: If you want that, you’ll have to set me up a generator too.
The owner calls huffily out of the stop.
Ryuuji: That again… Sorry, but we’re not gonna be able to do that.
It’s a request we’ve heard a lot today.
“Couldn’t you make us a generator like the school has?”
It’s no surprise. No one is staying in this old, electricity-less town without a good reason.
They either have some kind of deep affection for the place, or they lack the finances to move away. Some probably just haven’t found anywhere else that’s better for them.
Natsuki: If we really did bring electricity to the town, I wonder if people might come back.
Ryuuji: Probably, yeah. I mean, the coast isn’t exactly the tourist draw it used to be, but still…
The coast… Where I met that girl.
There was a long, winding road that used to run along the coastline.
On it was a lighthouse, that lit up the oceans at night.
That girl was standing on the cliff, watching the waves lap at the sands below.
Ryuuji: Let’s go over what you remember again.
Ryuuji: She was… ‘translucent’? So she, what, had long air, in a light color?
Natsuki: Yeah, but it didn’t seem like she dyed it, so she might not have been Japanese.
Ryuuji: And she was quiet, pretty, and about five years older than you?
Natsuki: She was taller than me back then. I’d say she was around, hmmm, five feet tall, or a little smaller.
Ryuuji: And she has red eyes?
Natsuki: Yeah, almost like ATRI’s.
ATRI: …
Ryuuji: Like ATRI’s ?
Natsuki: …
Ryuuji: Umm, Natsu, how old were you back then?
Natsuki: I was nine…
Ryuuji: Meaning the girl would were have been about fourteen… Which is kind of what ATRI looks like she would be.
Ryuuji: Long, light hair…
Ryuuji: A little under five feet tall…
Ryuuji: Ruby-red eyes…
Ryuuji: Umm, ATRI?
ATRI: Yes?
Ryuuji: When did Nonko-san buy you, exactly?
ATRI: I don’t really know…
Natsuki: Given that she was sleeping in that capsule, she must have been in that storehouse since before the seas rose.
Natsuki: It would have orginally been powered with electricity, and losing that power probably contributed to ATRI losing some of her memories while she was in sleep mode.
Ryuuji: So in order words, it wouldn’t be weird if she’d been at your grandma’s eight years ago?
Natsuki: I guess it wouldn’t…
…
Natsuki: Wait, it was you!?
ATRI: Huh!? What!?
ATRI: What did I do now!?
Ryuuji: She wouldn’t have changed at all in that time, would she? It’s gotta be her!
Natsuki: Hang on a minute here. It’s possible, but we can’t be sure…
Ryuuji: But she fits your description perfectly!
Natsuki: The girl I knew was quiet! What the hell is ‘quiet’ about this piece of scrap!?
Ryuuji: She’s been silent all day, hasn’t she? When she shuts her mouth, she’s just like the girl you described.
Natsuki: This can’t be happening…
ATRI: Err…?
Natsuki: I don’t remember ATRI ever being there when I lived with my grandmother.
Natsuki: She never mentioned buying a Humanoid or anything either.
Ryuuji: You said that you were forbidden from going in the storehouse though, right?
Natsuki: That’s true…
That was because she didn’t want me messing up her research notes or her equipment… Right?
Natsuki: ATRI… Could you turn around for a second?
ATRI: Err, okay…
…
That moment, a memory flashes through my mind. It lasts only the most fleeting of instants…
I stare intently at ATRI.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Umm…?
Natsuki: There’s absolutely no evidence that it’s her, but…
Natsuki: There’s nothing to rule it out, either.
I can’t believe this.
That memory that’s been frozen in time in my mind for so long, that girl I’ve always remembered… It might be this toaster-brained robot!?
ATRI: Right, it’s bedtime!
ATRI: Come at me!
We’ve had dinner, showered, brushed our teeth, and ATRI has finished writing her log. Now that there’s nothing let to do but sleep, ATRI approaches me with arms outstretched.
ATRI: We’re definitely sleeping together tonight!
Natsuki: Hey, stop that! Get off me, you idiot!
ATRI: Hmm? Why are you scared? You’re normally just embarrassed.
ATRI: I want to show you just how useful I am! If I don’t, I feel like I’m not living up to my high-performance robot standards!
Natsuki: You don’t need to worry about that. I know full well how ‘useful’ you are.
I smile gently down at her.
ATRI: … I read in one of the books in the library that when a male is suddenly nice to a female companion, it mean’s they’re about to break up.
ATRI: I suppose you’re about to throw me away…
Natsuki: Of course I’m not going to do that. And please don’t bring whatever strange romantic notions you’ve been reading about into this.
ATRI: Anyway, let’s go to bed! Together, of course!
She grabs hold of me, pouting and paw at me.
I gulp, my face turning red.
Natsuki: (When I think about how ATRI might be that girl I knew, just being near her makes me nervous…)
ATRI: Grr, I have no choice but to use force.
ATRI forcibly pulls me down onto the bed.
She grabs me by the neck and pulls my head against her chest, clutching me like she’s carrying a melon.
ATRI: Hehehe, there you are, bed time. ♪Have a nice, peaceful sleep!
Natsuki: Hnngh, get off me! You’re strangling me, you broken piece of scrap!
ATRI: Heh, insult me all you want. It’s the job of a loyal, loving robot to melt her master’s cold, cold heart.
ATRI: And for a high-performance robot such as me, that’ll be easy as pie!
ATRI refuses to let me out of her grasp.
As always, it does feel as nice to be in her arms, though. I soon give up attempting to escape.
Natsuki: Okay, okay…
Sighing and clicking my tongue for appearance’s sake, I let myself sink into her warm embrace.
ATRI: Ahh, you’re so cute when you’re being honest, Natsuki-san. There there, good boy.
Natsuki: (Gah, I don’t want to tell her, but that feels so nice…)
I just can’t resist this.
ATRI: Goodnight, Natsuki-san.
Her gentle voice is the last thing I hear before I close my eyes…
I lived to study. I had nothing in my life but school.
???: School?
“Yes. I want to study more and more.”
???: Why?
“I have to save the world.”
“If I don’t, well… I’ll never be saved myself. I’m so pitiful…”
Hot tears started to well up in my eyes.
I cried, and cried.
The girl simply looked at me curiously.
???: Does the world include me?
“…Huh?”
What a bizarre question…
It’s almost like she doesn’t believe she deserve to be part of the world.
Like she shouldn’t exist.
I can tell that she want’s to be saved too.
“How could I save you?”
???: …Teach me what ‘happiness’ means.
???: If I can learn to be happy, my master can be saved.
“So I just have to make you smile? Hmm…
“Can you try smiling, just so I can see what it looks like?”
???: Hm…?
“When people are happy, they smile, right? Maybe it works in reverse. If you smile, you’ll become happy.”
???: …
“Like this.”
“…”
In that moment, I learned how quick someone can fall in love.
A feeling that I had never known before welled up in my heart, and I knew instantly what it was.
It’s instinctual.
It’s built into our bodies, our nerves, our brains.
But it took root in my heart.
The next morning.
The familiar sound of teeth being brushed mingles with the sounds of the sea.
ATRI and I both stand before the mirror.
However, our hands aren’t moving with any particular vigor.
ATRI: Brushy brushy, brushy brushy…
We’re both bleary-eyed.
I had trouble sleeping properly last night.
Thankfully, it wasn’t because of my phantom pain coming back.
Natsuki: (I was so conscious of ATRI hugging me that I couldn’t fall asleep at all…)
I think that I passed out for a few hours, but I can’t remember when. Before I knew it, it was morning.
Natsuki: (I do remember having some kid of dream…)
I think it was about ATRI.
Natsuki: (Gah, what’s wrong we me lately!?)
I start brushing harder, as if to scrub the demons away.
Next to me, ATRI is still brushing lazily away.
She’s not exactly a morning robot, but she’s even worse than normal today. I had to whack her over the head a few times to make her get up.
ATRI: Natshuki-shan.
ATRI: Ahhhh…
ATRI turns to me and opens her mouth wide.
Natsuki: …
With a gulp, I stick her toothbrush in her mouth.
I carefully make sure her back teeth are all nice and clean, just like always. It’s almost become automatic now.
ATRI: Gurgegurgle… Pfft! Thanks.
Natsuki: No problem…
She leaves me alone to finish my ablutions.
ATRI: Hmm, twenty-seven days left…
In the cabin, I find ATRI making off another day on the calendar, as she does every morning.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: All right, I’ll get started on breakfast.
Natsuki: Not so fast. I’m not letting you waste all my food.
ATRI: Aww, I’ve been learning to cook in the cooking club, though. I’m betting better!
Natsuki: I’m not hungry anyway. I’m too sleep-deprived. Come on, get ready for school.
ATRI: Okaaaay…
Natsuki: It was the right idea to put a mesh over the dam’s safety valve. It’s stopping any seaweed getting in.
Natsuki: The grating on the entrance is stopping trash getting into the turbine too.
Ryuuji: Yeah, seems like it’s working good. Pretty amazing for a first try, eh?
During one of our breaks, we head down to perform maintenance on our generator.
While we’re here, we’re making some small additions too.
Natsuki: I wonder if we could make the hole rounder. It might make the flow of the whirlpool more regular.
Ryuuji: We could probably line it with concrete.
While it’s producing enough electricity for simple lighting, it’s not generating the amount you’d expect for the volume of water passing through it. A few tweaks should improve the efficiency.
I record everything we do in my notebook.
Ryuuji: Do you really need to write everything down like that?
Natsuki: I’m not intending to stop with just one generator.
Natsuki: If we’re going to power more things with the water around here, we’re going to need to have a good knowledge base to hand.
Ryuuji: Ohh, I see. The young professor really is thinking ahead of the curve.
Natsuki: Shut up, you damn country bumpkin!
Beside us, we have an observer sullenly watching our playful joshing.
ATRI: Hmm…
ATRI stares at us both with a sour look.
It’s a face I’ve seen an increasing amount of lately.
ATRI: …You’re really getting along with Ryuuji, aren’t you? A little too well, if you ask me.
Natsuki: Wh-What’s wrong with that?
Ryuuji: Heh, what’s up, toaster. You jealous?
ATRI: Hmph, who would be jealous of a guy like you? I’m more high performance than you could ever be.
Ryuuji: I’m much better at handling fiberglass than you are, though.
ATRI: Grr, teach me to do that too, then! I’ll learn and be better you in no time!
Ryuuji: No chance.
ATRI: Natsuki-san, Ryuuji’s being horrible to me! This is real robot abuse!
ATRI clings onto my arm and pouts.
Natsuki: O-Oh…
ATRI: Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: Umm, it’s about time for class. Let’s head back.
I shake ATRI off of me, and start walking out of the room.
ATRI: Natsuki-san…
Ryuuji: Hmm…
Ryuuji: Psst, Natsu.
Natsuki: What? I’m trying to concentrate here.
Ryuuji: Dude, what was with you just then?
Natsuki: What do you mean?
Ryuuji: Aren’t you being kinda cold with ATRI? It kinda makes me look like a bad guy if you don’t go along with my jokes, man.
Natsuki: …
Ryuuji playfully bullies ATRI a lot.
Normally it comes across as a joke, but I guess just now I made it seem like he was seriously being rude.
Natsuki: I’m sorry. I really am, but…
Natsuki: I just can’t help it right now.
Ryuuji: Hang on. Do you mean…
Natsuki: …
Ryuuji: Gotcha, man. Forget I said anything.
Seemingly understanding my situation, he goes back to his work.
Minamo: …
There’s no club activities today, and no salvage jobs on the schedule, so for once in a while we head home early.
Back on the ship, I spend a few hours poring through the seemingly-endless files my grandmother left behind.
Natsuki: Hmm, so these ones are data about waves formations along the coast… And this is a survey of the ocean floor…
Even this huge stack of papers is just a tiny fraction of the research my grandmother conducted throughout her life. The rest is sunken beneath the sea.
Natsuki: I should be able to find something useful in here, though. She spent a lot of her last years living on this ship, after all.
ATRI: Natsuki-saaaaan.
ATRI sidles up to me, sighing with problem.
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: Are you in research mode again? Are you going to build something else?
Natsuki: No, I’m just seeing if I can find anything that might help get back your memories.
She starts to curiously glance over the laid-out papers.
Natsuki: My grandmother was in the middle of a research project when she died.
Natsuki: I seems like it might have been something related to you.
Nonko: I want you to pull up ATRI. If you can take her where she needs to go, our plan can start again…
Natsuki: She wanted me to take you somewhere. Do you have any idea where she meant?
ATRI: My master wanted that?
Natsuki: Yeah, Yachigusa Nonko, the ocean geologist. Your old master.
ATRI: Yachigusa Nonko… I might remember her, but I’m not sure.
If we can just fill in the gaps in ATRI’s memory, she might be able to remember.
But if she can’t even remember the name of her former master, it seems like this might to be difficult.
Natsuki: Is there anything else your remember? Absolutely anything?
ATRI: Hmm, well…
ATRI: My master always used to call me useless. She said it wasn’t any fun being around me.
My grandmother could say such cruel things to people sometimes, things that would cause even me to recoil.
ATRI: I was always mistakes…
Natsuki: Do you ever remember meeting a young boy?
ATRI: A boy?
Natsuki: Yeah, one around nine years old, on a clifftop.
ATRI: Err, that’s very specific.
Natsuki: It would have been around eight years ago.
Natsuki: You said that you wanted to go to school before, remember? That might be because of what that boy said to you.
For some reason, ATRI really wanted to go to school.
It’s possible that her desire came about due to what I said to her back then.
Assuming that girl really was ATRI, of course.
ATRI: Hmm…
She tilts her head, bemused.
Natsuki: Ah, I see. I suppose you don’t remember.
I start looking through the files again.
ATRI: Since I’ve got nothing better to do, I may as well go and do the shopping.
She gets up with a look of annoyance etched on her face, obviously put out by my lack of attention.
Natsuki: Great, thanks.
Lately, I’ve been feeling a lot more comfortable letting her go out and do things on her own.
The locals all know her. The call her ‘the young professor’s girl, apparently.
She’s been going out alone to do the shopping regularly recently.
ATRI: What do you want to eat? I could make you another Hamburg steak if you want.
Natsuki: No, I’ll be fine with some snacks.
Nothing good comes of actually letting her cook with the things she buys.
I’m not a particularly gastronomic person anyway, so anything I can eat is fine with me. The quicker and easier the better, in fact.
ATRI: Tch… Whatever, I’m going.
She walks out onto the deck with her shopping bag in hand.
I return to my grandmother’s files with a slight sense of unease creeping up my body.
Natsuki: …
If ATRI really is that girl from my childhood, I wish she would have remembered me.
Natsuki: (But if it was her, then back then, she…)
Minamo: Don’t you think Natsu-kun has been acting weird lately?
ATRI: Yes… It’s almost like he’s avoiding me.
ATRI: I want to be around him, but it feels like he doesn’t want the same… What do I do?
Minamo: W-Wait, is this…
Minamo: You’re asking for relationship advice!? A proper girly chat!?
ATRI: Huh? Well, I wouldn’t say-
Minamo: Yesss, girly chat! Girly chat!
ATRI: …Okay, let’s call it that.
Ririka: You’re kinda scary today, Minamo-chan…
Ririka: Did you have a fight with him or something?
ATRI: Of course not! I’m nothing but loyal and deferent to Natsuki-san.
Minamo: Err, you do seem to argue an awful lot, though.
ATRI: That’s only because Natsuki-san is such a petulant brat sometimes. I’m just trying to give him advice, for his own benefit.
Minamo: Well, you do always look like you’re getting along well then.
ATRI: When we’re arguing?
Minamo: Yeah. Natsu-kun would never talk to me the way he does to you.
Ririka: He does say mean stuff to me sometimes. Like, he gives me that hitman stare and goes “Shut up, brat.”
Minamo: Haha, he doesn’t even hold back with kids, does he?
ATRI: Doesn’t that just mean he cares more for you because he’s nicer to you?
Minamo: Well, I’m sure he does care for me, but there are times when a girl doesn’t want just a boring old nice guy, right?
ATRI: Sometimes girls don’t want guys to be nice? Err, I’ve learned something…
Minamo: Hmm, now that I think about it, I noticed him whispering about something with Ryuu-chan the other day.
ATRI: Grr, I bet this is Ryuuji’s fault, then. He’s been all over Natsuki-san lately, all buddy-buddy and touchy-feely.
Minamo: Hehe, I know, right?
ATRI: Hmm? Why are you laughing?
Minamo: You’re just so cute when you’re jealous, ATRI-chan.
Ririka: Huh, Hana-chan’s calling me. I’ll go and see what she wants.
Minamo: I’m sure that Natsu-kun doesn’t hate you or anything. If anything, it’s probably the opposite. The two of you have been getting closer and closer lately.
ATRI: Then why won’t he sleep with me anymore?
Minamo: Huh!? “sleep” with you…!?
ATRI: Yes, he normally goes to sleep hugging me, but he’s suddenly stopped.
Minamo: Wait, Natsu-kun sleeps with you in his arms?
ATRI: Exactly! I am high performance enough to function perfectly as both his leg and his body pillow!
Minamo: I’m… kind of creeped out. I didn’t think he’d make you do something like that…
Minamo: …
Minamo: …I’m a little envious too.
ATRI: Lately he’s stopped, though. Even though I think he really should keep doing it…
Minamo: Do you have any idea why he might not want to do it?
ATRI: Well, the other day that idiot country bumpkin took Natsuki-san into town.
ATRI: They went all around the place staring at all the women.
Minamo: Err…
ATRI: My high-performance A.I. pattern recognition faculties identified it as a form of “cruising.”
Minamo: Now I’m even more creeped out! What did those two think they were doing!?
ATRI: I also identified that all of the women were above school-leaving age. Therefore I conclude that Natsuki-san is into older women.
Minamo: …
Minamo: Haha… Hahaha… I knew it. I was never even on his radar…
Minamo: I see, I see… He likes them older… That’s why he gets on so well with Hanako-sensei…
ATRI: Sorry to interrupt while you’re busy having some kind of crisis, but can I carry on?
ATRI: It seems like Natsuki-san has a particular female that he views as special.
ATRI: It was an older girl, his first love.
Minamo: Oh, is that who he was talking about before?
ATRI: Yeah, and that’s why he won’t sleep with me anymore! At least, that is my conclusion based on my built-in knowledge of human morality.
ATRI: Isn’t horrible? I know robots are basically only a substitute for real human beings in the first place, but isn’t cruel to jus use me and then throw me away?
Minamo: I’m not quite sure that’s what he’s doing…
Minamo: How do you feel about Natsu-kun, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: How do you mean…?
Minamo: Well… Do you love him?
ATRI: Of course I love him.
Minamo: Umm, well, I mean… Do you love him, like, romantically?
ATRI: …
ATRI: I’m a robot. I don’t think I am capable of that function.
Minamo: Really?
ATRI: Yes.
Catherine: Coming through, get out of the way! This thing’s really heavy, y’know?
Ririka: Clear the way!
Minamo: Huh?
Ryuuji: So, are you actually gonna do anything?
Natsuki: Do anything? About what?
Ryuuji: ATRI, dude.
Ryuuji: She’s probably your first love, right?
Natsuki: We don’t know that for sure.
Ryuuji: But she was there at the old granny’s place the whole time, wasn’t she?
Ryuuji: This town isn’t exactly teeming with red-eyed girls. It’s gotta be her.
Natsuki: But she’s a robot.
Ryuuji: I guess…
Ryuuji: But she really doesn’t look or act like it, does she?
Natsuki: I suppose not…
Ryuuji: Y’know, Natsu…
He suddenly fixes me with an unusually serious look.
Ryuuji: I like you, you know, and ATRI too.
Ryuuji: It hasn’t been too long since we first met, but I’ve come to see what a good guy you are.
Natsuki: Ryuuji…
Ryuuji: So I’ll support you in whatever you decide to do, even if it’s something that’s gonna make you an outcast around here.
Natsuki: Wait, I-
Ryuuji: There, I’ve said my piece, that’s all.
He smiles, a weight seemingly off his chest.
Natsuki: I don’t plan on doing anything until I have absolute proof that the girl from my memories really was ATRI.
Ryuuji: Jeez, you’re such a wuss sometimes. If you’re a real man, go out there and bag your girl! You’re already living together, aren’t you?
Natsuki: Listen, she’s a robot, Ryuuji. I don’t think about her in that way.
…I will admit, that fact that we sleep in the same bed might look a little suspicious.
But I’m not doing that with any kind of impure intentions at all.
I don’t want to do that kind of thing with ATRI at all…
Natsuki: …
Ryuuji: Huh? What’s with the tomato impression all of a sudden?
Natsuki: I-It’s nothing…
*plink*! ♪
Natsuki: …Huh?
Ryuuji: What was that?
It’s an oddly familiar, nostalgic sound.
There it is again.
Natsuki: It’s a piano. Something’s tuning it.
Ryuuji: You what?
When we return to the classroom, everyone is thronged around a particular object.
In the middle of the crowd is Catherine.
Minamo: Natsu-kun, look! We’ve got a piano!
It’s an old and slightly beat-up, but she’s right.
Natsuki: What’s this all of a sudden?
Catherine: One of the school’s graduates gave it to me. Said we could use it for lessons.
Ririka: We can have music classes now!
Miyo: We can sing songs!
Tooru: This is gonna be awesome!
The children are eagerly examining every inch of the piano.
Most of their relatives used to go to school here too.
When we talked with Minamo’s father about employing Catherine as a teacher, he mentioned that a lot of people in this town were really glad to see their old school lit up again.
It seems like just lighting this one classroom has started to change everything around here.
Ririka: Ooh, ooh, can you play something for us?
Ryuuji: Wait, you can play the piano?
Catherine: Tsk, don’t underestimate us elementary school teachers, kid.
Catherine: …I’ll just need a little practice first. I’m a bit rusty.
Natsuki: So, where are we going to put this?
Catherine: I think that now we’ve got enough students, we should split the high school class and the lower years into different classrooms.
That makes sense. There’s no way we could have half of the class racking their brains over math problems and the other making a racket with the piano.
Minamo: We’ve got plenty of classrooms. We could have one just dedicated as music room.
The actual music classroom used in the past, by the way, is across in the other school building, underwater.
Catherine: For today, we’ll just leave it here.
Catherine: Don’t you brats go touching this thing without permission, okay? You break it, you pay for it.
The small kids all nod fervently, sufficiently cowed by her intimidating presence.
Ryuuji: Jeez, Hana-chan really knows how to scare that bunch into line.
Natsuki: Yeah, you can count on her for that, if nothing else.
Her style may be a little more stick than carrot, but it certainly seems to earn their respect. I suppose that’s necessary as a teacher.
Everyone finally calms down, and class begins.
Every time we take a break through the day, a crowd of curious kids surround the piano.
Despite Catherine’s warnings, they’re all just too curious to hear what kind of music it can make. At lunch, the group of eager children is at its largest.
Ririka: Hey, Ryuu-chan, can you play something?
Minamo: You play instruments, don’t you?
Ryuuji: Only guitar, I’ve never even touched a piano.
Miyo: What kind songs are we gonna sing?
Tooru: I wanna sing something cool!
Minamo: That does sound like fun… Maybe we can ask to take part in lessons with the little ones too?
Ririka: Oh yeah, Hana-chan doesn’t teach you now, does she? So you won’t be doing music…
Ryuuji: Heh, I don’t suppose we can depend on Natsu to suddenly pull some musical talent out of his ass like he does everything else?
Natsuki: Well, I’m not entirely unfamiliar with the ivories…
My reply is breezy and non-committal, but instantly everyone’s eyes turn expectantly to me.
Natsuki: I learned to play when I was little. I probably still could now, but likely not enough to be a teacher…
Ryuuji: Jeez, dude, why didn’t you say that earlier?
Ririka: Ooh, play us something!
Minamo: Yeah, I want to hear you play too!
Everyone bears down on me with hungry eyes.
Natsuki: Okay, okay, just calm down.
With everyone gathered expectantly around me, I sit  before the piano.
I open the lid.
Setting eyes on the back and white keys for the first time, the assembled crowd lets out a little “ooh” of anticipation.
I press down a key, testing how much resistance it offers.
It lets out a soft, mellifluous sound with only the slightest touch.
My fingertips still remember this sensation after all of these years.
I slowly start to play a tune.
I start with a simple practice tune, one I played a million times as a child.
Minamo: Whoa…
Ririka: Ohhh, wow!
Yoko: Damn, you’re not just a total hottie and a brainbox. But you can seriously play piano too? You’re totally too perfect!
Natsuki: (Hmm, I’m definitely a little rusty…)
I stumble over the occasional note, but I manage to make it to end of the piece.
My performance prompts an energetic round of applause.
Tooru: Play us something else!
Miyo: Play us that one about the doggy!
I start taking requests, playing standards that everyone knows.
Over the course of three songs, the audience gradually grows entranced by the music. All fall silent, except for some children humming along.
As my fingers start to grow more accustomed to the keys, I start to play with increasingly fluidity and ease.
I come to the end of a song. By now, the crowd isn’t applauding, they’re merely waiting patiently for me to start again.
However, it’s almost time for lunch to come to an end.
Natsuki: Okay, one more song.
I take a breath, and start to play.
Miyo: What’s this song?
Tooru: No idea…
It doesn’t seem like anyone knows this piece, but after a moment’s confusion, everyone starts to listen intently.
Minamo: What a pretty tune…
Ryuuji: Yeah, it’s nice…
I remember being taught this piece as a child, by my mother.
It was a song from her hometown, one that used to be sung in all of the pubs and at all of the gatherings. The lyrics, however, had been long for gotten.
Its sweet tones resonate through the morning air.
Everything is silent expect for the dulcet piano… And one voice.
???: Hmmhmm… ♪
Natsuki: (…Huh?)
Somebody is humming along with the melody.
Someone else knows this song? But who-
ATRI: Hmm, hmhmm… ♪
Natsuki: (ATRI?)
ATRI is humming along with the song, matching the tune perfectly.
I listen intently to her, matching my playing to her rhythm.
Before I know it, we come to the end of the song.
The whole crowed bursts into applause.
Minamo: What a lovely song!
Ririka: Yeah, I wanna play something that nice too!
Ryuuji: Man, I got completely taken in.
Yoko: You’re, like, super good at the piano!
Everyone is effusive in their praise (a little too much, if anything), except for one particular member of the crowed.
ATRI: …
ATRI simply sits there, starting absentmindedly at me.
It almost seems like she doesn’t know what she’s been doing.
I find myself staring back at her.
Natsuki: Umm, ATRI?
ATRI: …Hmm?
Natsuki: I’m surprised that you know that song.
ATRI: The melody just suddenly popped into my head…
A flash of distress tinges her expression.
Catherine: Okay, that’s lunch over. Butts in seats, everyone.
Catherine has slipped into the classroom at some point while me were all entranced. She rings her little bell.
I close the lid over the keys.
Catherine: Hey… Teach me how to play something later.
Natsuki: What?
Catherine: The piano, teach me something simple. I need to impress these brats.
Natsuki: Right, if I must.
I’m hardly paying attention to what she’s saying. I’m just starting at ATRI.
I feel like, by pure chance, I might have stumbled upon a key to some small fragment of her memories.
The next day.
It’s the weekend, so there’s no school.
Instead…
We’re under the sea.
Ryuuji: So, you find it?
Natsuki: No, this one’s a bust. I can’t see anything that looks like the one we’re searching for.
We’ve had a great rush of salvage jobs recently.
Rumors have been spreading about our business since our first, successful job, and the customers have been coming in thick and fast since then.
Today we’re using our free time to go searching for some of the more difficult request, but we’ve hit a pretty big snag.
We have a client who wants us to retrieve an heirloom that was lost in a shipwreck in a storm several years ago, but we can’t even find the ship.
Ryuuji: These are the coordinates, though. It’s gotta be here somewhere.
Natsuki: That ship’s been down here a long time. It could have drifted away on the current.
ATRI, swimming alongside the sub holding on to its chassis, suddenly taps on the window and gives me some kid of gesture.
ATRI: Mmmph…!
Natsuki: Do you see something?
She points, and I turn the rudder.
There’s something lying on the bottom of the ocean.
Natsuki: Hmm, that’s not natural… but it’s no ship either.
ATRI swims over, and lifts the object up.
It’s a long, thin object. For a second I’m about to write it off as a lost mooring rope, but I pause.
Natsuki: Hang on… Is that an undersea cable?
It’s attached to some kind of small relay on the seafloor. ATRI pulls on it, but it’s impossible to see just how far away it stretches.
Natsuki: Be careful with that. It might still be functioning.
I wonder if it’s the kind of optical fiber cable that used to connect islands to mainland communication networks.
Natsuki: …Going by the map, there’s not any other land masses out in that direction for a long way. I wonder it leads?
In the past, cables this used to criss-cross the entirety of the Pacific ocean, connecting Japan to countries far across the sea.
Ryuuji: Did you find something?
Natsuki: Nothing pertinent to the job in hand, unfortunately.
Ryuuji: Well, it’s almost sundown. You’d better get back up here before it gets dark.
Natsuki: Roger. ATRI, prepare to surface.
ATRI: …
She grabs hold of the Serpens Albus, and I fire up the compressed air tanks to send up upwards.
Ryuuji: Welcome back.
Ririka: Welcome back, you two!
Ririka hands me my cane, and I finally feel able to breathe.
ATRI: There was some really, really long cable down there. What was that?
Ryuuji: What cable?
Natsuki: An undersea cable. It looked like the kind you’d use to link an island to the mainland, but there’s no islands in that direction.
Ryuuji: Yeah, it’s just open sea out there.
Maybe there’s some kind of outpost stationed our in the ocean?
Ryuuji: Guess we’re outta luck today, though. Damn, I knew that job was.
Salvaging from sunken houses is made significantly easier by being able using maps. Unfortunately, heading further out to hunt shipwrecks probably requires specialized techniques.
Ryuuji: Eh, lucky we agreed a fee just for searching, even if we didn’t find it.
Natsuki: I don’t feel particular good about taking money for a failure. though.
The people that come to us often want us to salvage more than just an object. They’re looking for their memories.
The vast majority of the requests we get are to find things that have far more sentimental value than they do monetary.
Today’s failed salvage was just the same.
Natsuki: I think we should camp out here for the night, and search again in the morning.
Ryuuji: Sounds like plan.
If we tried to make our way back ashore from his far out in the dark, we may well end up joining our client’s ship on the seabed.
Ririka: We’re having a sleepover? Yayyy!
Ryuuji: Let’s make some dinner. I’m starving.
Natsuki: ATRI, do and shower off while we get things ready.
ATRI: Aye aye, cap’n!
She trots off, leaving little wet footprints on the way to the bathroom.
After a slightly early dinner, we all engage ourselves in our own business.
Ryuuji listens to his favorite radio program. The radio waves are barely reaching this far out, and the sound of fuzzy guitars has to fight to be heard over the static.
Ririka is poring through my modest collection of books, happily devouring all manner of things she can’t find on the library shelves.
I’m simply lying around bored.
Natsuki: Where has ATRI got to?
Ririka: She said that she was popping outside.
Natsuki: Huh, I see.
It’s rare for her to leave my side without good reason.
Ryuuji: Dammit, the reception out here sucks…
While Ryuuji tries every trick in the book to will the radio waves into the antenna, turning it to every angle and jamming it up against his ear, I pass by him and walk out onto the deck.
ATRI is sitting on the edge of the bow, dangling her feet over the water. She’s gazing off listlessly into the far distance.
Looking at her face, thrown into profile against the evening calm by the light of the ship, a sudden pang of something akin to homesickness washes over me. I intended to call out to her, but I find myself simply watching her in silence.
ATRI: Hm…? Is something wrong, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: No…
Natsuki: Are you all right? You’re just staring into space.
ATRI: I thought I saw something… Or heard something…
ATRI: Something calling to me. Someone I know… It’s a strange sensation. I’m finding it difficult to process.
She turns her eyes back to the still ocean.
Natsuki: “The sea is our mother, the cloud is our brother, the waves are our comrades all”… They say humans all have a connection to the sea. Maybe even you do too.
ATRI: …
She turns away form me with an odd look, almost… guilty.
A heavy silence falls over us. I have no idea what to say.
The sea is so still that even the waves off us no comfort.
Natsuki: …I want to hear that song again.
ATRI: Oh…?
Natsuki: Would you sing for me?
ATRI: …
She pauses, and nods. Then takes a soft, quiet breath.
She starts to sing, at first in a quiet, faltering tone.
She hums softly as if searching long-buried memories for that old melody.
It’s like she’s piecing the notes together from deep in her memory banks.
Gradually, the fragments come together.
ATRI: Hmmhmm… ♪
She sings, clear and lilting.
It seems like it’s all coming back to her.
Her voice resounds across the soft orange glow of the ocean.
The lone witness to this beautiful spectacle, I stand bewitched.
I think back to the days when I learned this song. I never had the slightest doubt about my future back then-I was sure life would be filled with happiness.
I thought the joy I felt would last forever. I believed that, without any proof, without even a single shred of evidence.
And then I lost my mother, and my leg…
I can never go back to those innocent days.
And yet it feels like I they’re right here again, in the form of this song.
My cheeks feel warm.
I suddenly realize that it’s because of the tears running down them.
I don’t wipe then away. I’m too enthralled to care.
Before I know it, the seas are silent again.
There is nothing but the soft whistle of the wind around us.
ATRI: Hahhh…
ATRI lets out a sigh, quiet and yet filled with emotion.
She puts her hand to her chest as she speaks.
ATRI: This song was so precious to me, but I’d forgotten it completely.
ATRI: You salvaged this memory for me, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Oh, no… It was you, you…
The words simply won’t come out.
I don’t know if I know how to express what I want to say.
ATRI: When you pulled me out of the ocean, I had a… premonition.
Natsuki: You did…?
ATRI: I felt like it wasn’t the first time we’d met.
She speaks slowly, every word so careful and delicate.
ATRI: I felt like we had met long ago, when you were just a boy.
Natsuki: ATRI… So it was you…
She reaches out a hand to gently, so gently, wipe away my tears.
ATRI: It’s been a long time, hasn’t it? You’ve really grown up.
She smile at me, the sweetest of smiles, and I feel myself fall in love for the second time.
…
In the middle of the night, I’m awoken by a horrendously hot, heavy sense of humidity.
Ryuuji: Hrmm, nngh…
Ririka: Zzz, zzz…
Ryuuji and Ririka are both squashed into this cramped bed with me.
I had laid out a sheet on the floor, but I struggled to get to sleep down there.
Natsuki: What time is it?
It’s completely black outside of the window, but it’s not too far from the dawn.
ATRI: Zzz, mmn…
ATRI is sitting in a chair, comfortably snoozing away.
“It’s been a long time, hasn’t it? You’ve really grown up.”
Natsuki: …
I felt so bashful around ATRI after that moment that I locked myself up in the cabin and said nothing to her for the rest of the night.
Natsuki: I’d sort of already realized this, but I’m really not as experienced with regular human relationships as I should be…
Until I dropped out of The Academy and came here, Minamo was the only friend I’d ever made.
And obviously, I’ve never had a girlfriend.
I thought such things were below me…
Natsuki: I guess this is the kind of situation you end up in if you don’t build up a knowledge base…
I’d always acted as if I was above everyone else, but looking back at the past few weeks, that could hardly be less true.
Natsuki: I’m just a man who’s good at studying, I suppose…
I look back on the me that thought he could save the world all by himself with acute embarrassment. I sit on the bed with my head in my hands.
Natsuki: Ugh, it’s too hot in here…
This cabin, and furthermore this bed, isn’t suited to this kind of population density.
I carefully extricate myself from the tangle of bodies, and quietly make my way outside.
Natsuki: …Huh? Why is it so foggy?
The entire area is coated in a thick layer of cloudy mist.
It should be about time for the sun to begin to peek above the horizon, but there’s not a single trace of its rays.
The wind is still, and yet the waves are buffeting the ship.
The deck is swaying enough to almost toss me off of my feet.
I have to grab onto the railing to keep myself form being swept into the briney deep.
Natsuki: I should head back to bed.
As I go to turn around, the fog grows somehow even darker.
Natsuki: What…?
I peer into the gloom…
An enormous silhouette looms over me through the mist.
Natsuki: Whoa…!?
It towers over the ship, gleaming with red lights.
Natsuki: Is that the lighthouse? No, it wouldn’t be in that direction…
That’s further out at sea, nowhere near the town.
Did the we come unanchored and drift somewhere in the night?
The fog is so thick that I can’t make out anything else around us.
If it’s not a lighthouse, then what what is it?
Some kind of huge ferry? Or…
Natsuki: A monster?
Perhaps I’m dreaming? This is just a strange nightmare, brought about by the muggy heat of the night. I shake with fear, rooted to the spot by the swaying of the deck.
Then I head the pitter-pitter of footsteps behind me.
ATRI: Ugh, mmnph… Who’s calling me?
ATRI shuffles out of the cabin, rubbing her sleepy eyes.
Natsuki: ATRI!
ATRI: Oh, it’s you, Natsuki-san? Why are you up this early?
Natsuki: I didn’t call you! Wake up, damn you!
ATRI: …
ATRI stares blearily out at the shadow in the fog.
ATRI: …What’s that?
Natsuki: I have no idea.
ATRI: …
It’s almost like the red light is staring back at her…
Natsuki: Whoa!?
The ship shudders beneath my feet.
I struggle to not go flying across the deck.
Natsuki: The waves… They’re coming from that thing!
The shadow approaches closer, buffering the ship with an even more powerful swell.
Natsuki: It’s going to crash into us at this rate! We need to move!
I fire up the engine, and weigh anchor.
The waves emanating from the monstrous object wash over the deck.
ATRI: …
Even as I panic, ATRI remain standing still, staring at the light.
The ship’s propellers spin into life.
Fighting through the waves, I maneuver out of the path of the shadow.
Natsuki: It’s not chasing us…
The red light in the mist starts to grow dim.
It seems like it’s retreating.
The light and the shadow gradually fade into the fog.
The waves soon calm, and the ship is steady.
Natsuki: That thing… It was calling to you?
ATRI: Well… I might have been imagining it. *yawn*…
ATRI sleepily takes me by the hand, and leads me back inside.
Ryuuji: A huge shadow?
Natsuki: Yeah, it was almost like some kind of monster.
A few hours later, the fog has completely disappeared.
Ryuuji: And there was a red light?
Natsuki: Yeah, what do you think it could be?
Ryuuji: It’s probably the phantom island. It’s an old legend spoken about among the fishermen around here, an island that appears in the fog.
Natsuki: An island? It seemed to be moving, though…
Ryuuji: They say it floats across the seas.
Natsuki: A floating island…?
As a man of science I’m not given to believing in urban legends like this, but this time I’ve been it with my own eyes.
ATRI: Hahhh… I’m so tried. I think someone woke me up in the middle of the night…
Ririka: I slept like a log! The ship swaying really rocked me to sleep.
Natsuki: (Was she just half-asleep earlier?)
Ryuuji: Anyway, we’ve gotta get to work. Let’s get this job done today and get going home.
Natsuki: Yeah…
It must have been a dream or something. I put it out of my mind, and decide to concentrate on work.
...
Natsuki: Ahh, what a nice morning…
Looking at the sun streaming through the window across the ceiling of the ship, I unintentionally sigh.
I sit up, and look across the room.
ATRI is sleeping in the sofa.
I wouldn’t let her sleep with me again last night.
I peer at her sleeping face, feeling more than a little guilty.
Natsuki: ATRI?
ATRI: Zzz… Zzz…
Natsuki: ATRI…
ATRI: Zzz… Zzzzz…
I shake her lightly, but she shows absolutely no sign of waking up.
Recently, she’s been even worse at getting up in the morning.
Natsuki: That part her is cute too, though…
Who am I talking to, exactly?
ATRI: It’s been a long time, hasn’t it? You’ve really grown up.
Natsuki: …
Phew, my face is burning.
My chest feels tight. I almost want to scream in frustration.
Natsuki: Gah, it just had to be ATRI…
That blissful expression of hers is so annoying that I can’t help but pinch her cheeks.
ATRI: Mmngh… I can’t eat any more, I’m stuffed…
Natsuki: Robots can talk in their sleep?
Even with my fingers playing with her squishy cheeks, she doesn’t stir at all. I give up, and go about my usual morning business.
For some reason, I take particular care with my hair and skin today…
ATRI: Here, take my hand.
We leave our ship and head to school.
ATRI hops over to the pier before me, and helps me across.
It’s just part of our usual morning ritual.
Natsuki: …Thanks.
ATRI: No problem.
ATRI: Okay, let’s go! I wonder what we’ll be studying today?
ATRI walks hand-in-hand with me all the way to school, happily kicking her feet up high with every step.
Our path takes up to a hill on the coast.
The sea breeze tingles pleasantly against my skin.
ATRI: Hmmhmmhmmm… ♪
ATRI’s in a good mood, as she always is on the way to school. She’s always so excited to get there and study.
She’s so adorable like this that I can’t help but smile.
I wonder if Catherine looks at all of the little kids in the same way.
Natsuki: Hey, ATRI.
I come to a stop, and pull ATRI’s arm.
ATRI: Oh? What’s up, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: I love you.
ATRI: …Huh?
ATRI tilts her head quizzically.
Natsuki: You know… I’m in love with you.
ATRI: What!?
ATRI: I’ve never known you to be so honest before… I suppose I should pat your head and call you a good boy again!
ATRI pulls on my hand until I lean over, and then stands on her tiptoes as she strokes my hair.
It’s ever so slightly humiliating… And yet I can’t bring myself to stop her.
It just feels too good.
ATRI: I love you too, Natsuki-san.
ATRI beams as she pats my head.
Natsuki: Really?
ATRI: Of course.
Natsuki: Oh… Well, I’m glad.
ATRI: Me too!
ATRI: Now, let’s go to school. I’ve got learning to do!
ATRI kicks her feet up even higher as we walk together.
Ryuuji: You finally confessed to her!?
Natsuki: Yeah…
Ryuuji: Niiiiiice, dude! How did it go?
Natsuki: I don’t think she really understood what I was saying.
Ryuuji: You did tell her outright that you love her, right? You didn’t half-ass it?
Natsuki: Yeah, I said it outright.
Natsuki: But I don’t think she understands the concept. Romantic love might not be something she’s equipped for.
Ryuuji: Yeah, she is a Humanoid, after all.
I worked a lot of courage to confess, and this is how it ends up. It’s painfully disappointing.
Ryuuji: You did your best, though, man! It’s not like she turned you down either. You’ve still got a chance.
Natsuki: I hope so…
Ryuuji: Right, I’m gonna treat you to something on the way home. We’ve got a little money to burn after the weekend, anyway.
Our salvage operation out at sea ended up actually going really well.
On the second day, we ran across the ship we were looking for almost completely by accident.
The client was so surprised and elated that he gave us even more money than we’d agreed.
Ryuuji: I wanna eat something cold for once.
Natsuki: Yeah, that would be nice.
The two of us start to walk back to the classroom, chatting as we go.
Catherine: …
The morning’s classes pass without much incident.
Among them is Catherine’s first music lesson.
We’ve moved the piano into an empty classroom and turned it into the music room. The lesson is supposed to be for the smaller children, but everyone ends up wanting to take part.
Before long, lunchtime comes.
Catherine: Hey, brat.
Natsuki: Do you have to call me that, as well as the little kids?
Catherine: Well, maybe if I wouldn’t if you ever showed me a single lick of respect in front of them.
Natsuki: So, did you need something?
Catherine: …Well, I didn’t expect you to start right away, I guess.
Catherine: First, I suppose I should thank you for helping me work on my piano skills.
After we’d returned from the salvage job on the weekend, I came to the school to teach Catherine to play better.
Although I’m hardly skilled enough myself to teach anyone, Catherine already had a good grounding from her teaching course, so I only needed to give her a refresher.
Natsuki: You did pretty well just now. The children seemed happy.
Catherine: …I’ll ignore this feeling I have that I’m being talked down to, and just say thanks for the compliment.
Natsuki: What can I say, you can be as much trouble as ATRI and Ririka sometimes, though in a slightly different way.
I get the urge to help her out sometimes.
It doesn’t really matter that she’s older, or my teacher.
Catherine: I’ll take that as another compliment. I feel like I’m always relying on you, tsk…
Catherine: I’m gonna make the afternoon classes a special kinda lesson, but don’t assume it’s me trying to pay you back, okay?
Natsuki: A special lesson?
Catherine: Heh, a little something to help all of you kids grow up a little.
She smile ominously…
After lunch, Catherine comes into the classroom with that same smile.
Catherine: So, we’re going to have a special lesson this afternoon.
Ririka: A special lesson?
Tooru: What’s it gonna be?
Yoko: Aww yeah, that means we get out of math class!
Catherine: Right, whatever, quiet down. This is going to be an important class, so listen properly, okay?
Ryuuji: What kind of class is it gonna be?
Catherine: Sex education.
Her words reverberate through the classroom.
All of the boys form every school year are assembled on the roof.
Ryuuji: Jeez, she’s split us up? She’s gotta be giving them a real hardcore talk down there.
There’s eight of us up here.
We’ve all been sitting nervously in a circle since she ordered us out of the classroom.
Tooru: Why are we on the roof, anyway?
Ryuuji: Well, it’s just nice and open up here, right?
We initially thought we’d move into the classroom next door, but Ryuuji suggested this would be better.
Middle School Boy: So are we going to have class here?
Ryuuji: How about it, Natsuki?
Natsuki: …
I’m lost in thought.
Catherine planned this lesson with some objective in mind, but I had it sprung on me as a complete surprise. I suppose I should try to teach them something.
Natsuki: The girls are definitely going to learn something important in there. If we don’t do the same, they’ll be making fun of us for days.
Ryuuji: Y-You might be right there…
Middle School Boy: So we’re going to do it? We’re really gonna learn about… s-sex?
A palpable tension builds in the air.
Natsuki: So… I’d like to introduce our guest lecturer today, Professor Nojima.
Ryuuji: Huh!? Me!?
Natsuki: Out of all of us you seem like you’d be the most knowledge about that kind of thing.
Ryuuji: Well, umm…
Everyone’s gazes fix expectantly on Ryuuji.
Middle School Boy: Ryuuji-senpai, you’re real cool! Share your wisdom!
Ryuuji: O-Okay! Leave this to me! I’m gonna teach you guys all about the birds and the bees!
The crowd “ooh”s eagerly.
And thus begins our tutelage under Professor Nojima…
Minamo: Huh? What’s with the noise upstairs?
Catherine: Ignore those idiots. Boys always get so over-excited when it comes to sex.
Yoko: Hana-chan, what kinda stuff are we gonna learn about?
Catherine: I’ve told you, the name’s Catherine. Well, it’s almost the end of the semester, and you know what kinda thing happens over summer vacation.
Catherine: Going out, playing around with boys… At least one or two of you might come back with your cherries popped.
Ririka: Umm, Minamo-chan, what does “getting your cherry popped”
Minamo: Err, well… It means, umm, getting your first boyfriend!
Catherine: So, anyone in here already got a man?
…
Miyo: …
Catherine: Only one of you, and one of the little ones, at that? Jeez, what the hell are you girls doing? You’re only young once, y’know!
Yoko: I don’t wanna hear that from an old spinster like you!
Ririka: You’ve got a boyfriend, Miyo-chan?
Miyo: Y-Yeah… I’m going out with Tooru-kun. He said he loves me.
Ririka: Ohh, really? That sounds so cool!
ATRI: Question!
Catherine: Yes, ATRI?
ATRI: If a boy says he loves you, does that mean he’s a boyfriend now?
Catherine: Ahem, you probably shouldn’t put it like that. You shouldn’t be having more than one of them at a time.
ATRI: …I’ve learned something.
Yoko: Wait, has someone confessed their feelings to you, Atricchi?
ATRI: Yes. Natsuki-san, just this morning.
An enormous squeal erupts from the fourth floor. A high-pithed screech made up of a combination of “Ooooh”s and “No way!”s.
Natsuki: What on earth was that?
Middle School Boy: I-I wonder what they’re learning about down there.
Ryuuji: Grr, we’re not gonna lose to them! Hey, Tooru.
Tooru: Yeah?
Ryuuji: You’re the only one with a girlfriend here, right? Give us the low down. How did you bag her?
Tooru: Umm, well… You know when we got saved from getting sucked into that hole?
Tooru: Miyo-chan just wouldn’t stop crying after that, so, like, I was comforting her… And I told her I loved her.
The other boys erupt in applause.
Everyone, from the little elementary school kids to the most mature of us, is moved to tears by the earnestness of his children confession.
Except, that is, for me. I look upon everyone with the upmost objectivity, and think one thing:
Natsuki: (What the hell is this lesson supposed to be about?)
ATRI: He just stopped in the middle of the road when we were talking to school, and told me he loved me.
Yoko: Ooh, and what did you say?
ATRI: I complimented him for being honest, patted his head… And then I told him that I loved him too.
Yoko: Oooohhhh! ♪
Minamo: Wh-Whoa… That’s amazing!
Catherine: Hahhh… You blew it. A real failure to launch then.
ATRI: Did I do something wrong?
Catherine: Ririka, what would you do if Natsuki told you he loved you?
Ririka: Umm, I’d say I really love him too!
Catherine: So, ATRI, would you say that that would mean Ririka and Natsuki were a couple?
ATRI: …Yes? They both said they love each other…
Catherine: Minamo, what do you think?
Minamo: Umm, I don’t really think they’d be a couple.
ATRI: Why not?
Minamo: Well, because they mean different things by “love,” I guess.
Catherine: Exactly, there’s a lot of different kinds of love.
Ririka: There are? What’s the difference between them, then!?
Catherine: Miyo, how about you tell them.
Miyo: Well, umm… You can love your family, or your friends. But then you can also love someone, umm, romantically.
Yoko: Gah… It’s kinda painful being taught this stuff by a little kid.
Minamo: It’s pretty embarrassing, yeah.
ATRI: …I don’t understand. What’s the difference?
Ririka: Yeah, I don’t get it either! Like, I love hamburgers. What kind of “love” is that?
Minamo: How do you actually feel about Natsu-kun, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: I love him.
Minamo: Do you want to be together with him.
ATRI: Yes. Just being in a different classroom from him makes me sad.
Minamo: So, umm, do you feel strange when you’re around him? Kind of… restless? Giddy?
Minamo: Or sort of… jealous when he’s with someone else?
ATRI: …
ATRI: …I think I do.
ATRI: When I see him being all buddy-buddy with that idiot, Ryuuji, I get really annoyed.
Yoko: Ahh, I totally get that. The last time I had a boyfriend I used to get so, so pissed when it seemed like he was having more fun with his guy friends than me.
Catherine: Yep, that’s textbook jealousy. That’s what happens when someone you like seems to pay more attention to someone other than you.
ATRI: Jealousy… Processing, please wait a moment.
ATRI: …Processing complete.
ATRI: So you’re saying that when Natsuki-san confessed to me, we meant different things by the word “love,” and thus have failed to form a romantic relationship.
Catherine: Exactly.
ATRI: Understood. I should explicitly clarify my exact terminology next time.
Minamo: I don’t quite think that’s right.
ATRI: Oh? Why not?
Minamo: I don’t think it will work if you’re so… scientific about it. Putting how you feel into words is difficult, I know, but…
Yoko: You would know about that, wouldn’t you? Ms. Undisputed Champion of Unrequited Love Ten Years Running.
Minamo: D-Don’t say that…
Ririka: What about my hamburgers? Hamburgeeeeeers!
Miyo: So, you tried to tell him you love him, and it didn’t work, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: Yes.
Miyo: I think that’s just because you didn’t put enough emotion into it. You won’t make him see how you feel just with words.
ATRI: I see… I’ve learned something.
Yoko: …How are we getting schooled by an elementary-schooler here?
ATRI: Phew… Love is a difficult concept.
Ryuuji: I’m telling you, girls are scary. They might look good on the outside, but when you actually have to live with them, man…
After being taught all about romance by an elementary school boy, we move on to a blow-by-blow(sometimes literally) account of what it’s like to have an older sister.
We’ve heard all about her making him run errands, or lazing around the house half-naked, or dressing him up in girl’s clothes.
Natsuki: (This is gone from sex ed to something that’s going to put everyone off of girls for life…)
Ryuuji: So yeah, umm, what I’m saying is that basically it’s what’s on the inside that counts, man or woman! Don’t be fooled by how they look…
Thankfully, we’re saved by the tiny bell.
I breathe a sigh of relief as I’m finally freed from this personal hell.
Catherine’s Voice: Boys, you can come back down now!
Catherine shouts up from the classroom window.
I’ve never been so glad to hear that voice.
All of the boys looks surprisingly serious. It seems like they took… something from the class.
Ryuuji: So, yeah, give it all you’ve got, Natsu.
Natsuki: Yeah, right…
I have absolutely no idea what I should be doing, but I’m happy he’s cheering me on, at least.
ATRI: Ah, Natsuki-san!
As soon as I enter the classroom, ATRI rushes over and grabs my hand.
ATRI: Welcome back!
Natsuki: Err, nice to be back…
ATRI: Is something wrong?
Natsuki: It’s, umm, nothing.
I squeeze her hand ever so slightly.
Ryuuji: Minamo, what kind of stuff did you learn about?
Minamo: Err… We’re not supposed to tell you!
Ryuuji: Aww, c’mon, you’ve gotta be able to tell us something!
Yoko: Tsk, you’re a real perv, Ryuuji-kun.
Ryuuji: Wh-What? Was it really that in-depth a lesson!?
Minamo: Umm, in a way…
Ryuuji: Jeez, Hana-chan… Wait, you haven’t been telling dirty stuff to Ririka, have you!?
Ririka: I’ve taken my first steps toward adulthood…
Ryuuji: Huhwha!?
Ririka: I’ve learned the true meaning of loving hamburgers.
Ryuuji: …What?
Yoko: What did you guys learn, anyway?
Ryuuji: We had, like, a really hardcore lesson. The kind of thing we could never tell the girls about. Isn’t that right, Natsu?
Natsuki: Yeah, it was so “hardcore” I had no idea what was going on half the time.
I’m not lying.
Yoko: …Whoa. You, err, go guys.
Minamo: Eep… I’m getting embarrassed just thinking about it.
And so our “sex education” ended, with a distinctly strange atmosphere between the boys and girls of the school.
It’s not long before the day as a whole comes to a close.
I’m on cleaning duty, so I stay behind sweeping in the halls.
From the outside this place may look like a wreck, but the inside is keep surprisingly spotless.
ATRI: Natsuki-saaan.
Natsuki: Yeah?
ATRI: I’ve got club activities, so you can go home ahead of me today.
Natsuki: Understood. You seem to be trying really hard in the cooking club.
ATRI: Of course! Yoko and some of the middle school children have joined up, so we’ve got more members now too. President Minamo is really marshalling the troops!
We haven’t exactly got much choice of clubs at such a small school. Over half of the girls here have become Minamo’s subjects.
Natsuki: I hope you’re getting along with everyone there.
ATRI: Of course I am!
ATRI: Will you be all right going home on your own?
Natsuki: Don’t you worry about me, I’ll be fine.
ATRI: Gah… That makes me feel just as uneasy. It’s almost like you don’t need me anymore.
Natsuki: Don’t worry about that either. Having you alongside me means I never feel lonely.
I pat her soft hair.
ATRI: Well, if you say so…
She’s pacified a little by this gentle little exchange, but she still looks a little put out at not having to be around me constantly now.
Natsuki: I won’t be going home by myself anyway. I’ve made plans with Ryuuji.
ATRI: That idiot!
ATRI: Grr, I am detecting my jealousy circuits firing…
Natsuki: …Your what?
ATRI: Err, nothing. I’m supposed to keep that s secret from the boys…
She wanders back into the classroom, muttering to herself.
After I return home after spending the afternoon with Ryuuji, I start flicking once again through my grandmother’s papers.
I’m still looking for clues to ATRI’s lost memories whenever I get a chance.
Natsuki: She remembers me, which means she was living in this town eight years ago.
Natsuki: The order that ATRI is trying to remember must be something to do with the last project my grandmother was working on.
I’ve been trying to work out the nature of this project from whatever fragments of information I can find.
I’m slowly piecing together some kind of vague outline.
And yet I can’t for the life of me work our what ATRI has to do with it.
Natsuki: …
I relax for a moment, and instantly my concentration is gone. I look out of the window, and see the sun dipping below the horizon.
Natsuki: ATRI’s late…
Apparently the girls have made plans to go and grab some food after club activities.
I’m glad that ATRI’s making friends like this, but I have to admit there’s a tinge of loneliness to the situation too.
But I suppose being in the position to feel this particular loneliness just shows how lucky I am.
I look lazily around the room, until my gaze settles on object on the wall-the calendar.
When the forty-five-day countdown has finished, ATRI will be leaving. At least, that’s what she says.
I wonder how I’d feel if she really did disappear. The loneliness I feel in this moment, left by myself on this ship, would probably feel like absolutely nothing in comparison.
Natsuki: …Ugh, what’s wrong with me? I feel like I’m crying all the time lately.
During my time at Tha Academy, I’d always prided myself on not shedding a single tear in even the hardest moments.
Maybe I’m just making up for lost time.
Natsuki: It feels so nice just to let go, and cry…
I’ve started to look back on who I was, all the things I did, and think myself a fool. Exactly what senseless price was I fighting so hard to keep intact?
And how do I fight to protect peaceful days I’ve now found?
I hear a creak from the pier outside.
Footsteps.
In an instant, my heart leaps up from the bleak depths to which it had sunk, and pounds vitally in my chest.
ATRI: I’m baaaaaak! ♪
As soon as ATRI slams open the cabin door, she flings her shopping bag onto the bed and throws herself at me.
Natsuki: H-Hey now! Calm down…
ATRI: Hehehe, I’ve spent so much of today away from you, though! I need a good, close-up does of Natsuki-san!
ATRI: Did you miss me?
She bounces up and down, her adorable little cowlick bobbing as she grins up at me.
Natsuki: I-I can tell from that smile that you don’t need me to answer that.
ATRI: Hehe, I know how lonely you get. Without me here to keep you company, you even end up crying.
Natsuki: …
So it’s that obvious?
ATRI: You’ve got to be hungry, right? In that case, I’ll put my high-performance culinary skills to good use and make you a feast fit for a king!
Natsuki: Or not.
ATRI: What!? You can’t just cut me down like that! Where did the sweet mood we had going go!?
Natsuki: I really appreciate the sentiment, but please allow me to refuse. I value my stomach.
ATRI: But the only food we’ve got is stuff that would need cooking.
Peeking inside the shopping bag, I find little else expect minced beef and onions.
ATRI: The butcher asked me if I was “the young professor’s girl,” and gave me a discount. ♪
You’re famous, Natsuki-san!
Natsuki: Okay, I’ll get cooking.
ATRI: No way! This is my territory!
When I try to walk to the kitchen, ATRI stands before me and pushes me back with the strength of a sumo wrestler.
As ominous it sounds, it seems like tonight I have no choice but to eat ATRI’s creations.
In the kitchen, ATRI assumes an expression of utmost seriousness.
ATRI: First, knead the meet a little…
ATRI: Fifteen turns to the left, fifteen to the right…
ATRI: Eggs in the bowl, a little flour, a little salt… Form into a mass. Knead fifteen times. Flatten the air out, and turn five times.
Natsuki: (This is less like cooking, and more like some kind of science experiment.)
She gradually works her way through some kind of recipe in her mind, measuring weights and numbers with expect precision.
ATRI: Dinner’s ready!
ATRI: Could you clear the table for me? Be quick about it, or the food will go cold.
I sweep the assorted files littering the table onto the floor.
ATRI brings over a set of plates.
ATRI: There you go, Natsuki-san! How’s this?
I don’t even have to look at it to know exactly what it’s going to be.
I’ve been able to tell all along from the sweet smell wafting from the kitchen.
And yet, now that I’m actually looking at what she’s made first-hand, it’s even more wonderful than I could have expected.
She’s made a Hamburg steak with demiglace sauce, and a steamed vegetable salad.
Natsuki: This looks delicious…
ATRI: I know, right? Heh!
As someone without too much of an appetite, normally I can go entire days without eating if I’m concentrating on something else.
But with a dish like this in front of me, even I’m salivating.
Natsuki: Can I really eat this?
ATRI: Of course, go ahead!
Natsuki: Well, okay, here goes…
I eagerly cut out a piece of steak, and pop it in my mouth.
ATRI: Ba-dump ba-dump…
Natsuki: It’s great!
ATRI: Really?
Natsuki: Yeah. It’s as tasty as the ones I used to have in reataurants in the big city.
ATRI: I did it… really did it, President Minamo!
Natsuki: You learned this in the cooking club?
ATRI: Yeah! President Minamo and the other girls taught me everything-how to make the steak, how to season it, the proper cooking time.
Natsuki: That must have been hard for you to learn all of that…
ATRI: Not at all! I just wanted to be able to feed you something nice so much.
I feel the sincerity in her words.
Robots can’t lie, after all. Even someone as untrusting as me can’t really doubt her.
Natsuki: It really is delicious. Thank you.
ATRI: Ehehe, yayy, you actually complimented me!
It really must have been difficult for her to get this good. Compared to studying, she’ pretty useless at anything this delicate.
I wolf down the wonderful plate in front of me, savoring every mouthful with the pride of a parent eating their child’s first meal.
ATRI watches me with a broad smile the whole time.
ATRI: You’ve got a bit of sauce on your cheek.
Natsuki: Where? Can you wipe it off for me?
ATRI: Oh you, you’re such a spoiled kid, Natsuki-san.
She wipes it off with her finger, and laps up the sauce.
I turn away, my face tinged red.
ATRI: By the way, do you have any plans for tomorrow?
Natsuki: Umm, nothing in particular.
ATRI: Then would you like to go somewhere, just the two of us?
Natsuki: Okay then. Where do you want to go?
That “somewhere” is suspiciously vague. For a robot to ask something like that, she’d have to have some particular objective in mind.
ATRI: Anywhere is fine with me. I just want to go somewhere where the two of us can relax.
Natsuki: …Well, okay then.
ATRI giggles cutely.
ATRI: Ehehe… I can’t wait. ♪
She fidgets bashfully, bouncing up and down on her heels.
The next day, we wake up a little late.
We make ourselves a light breakfast, and go through our usual teeth-brushing rouline.
Before long I’m ready to go out. Now I’m simply waiting for ATRI to finish preparing our lunches.
ATRI: There we go, all done! ♪
She happily closes the lunchboxes, and smile over at me.
ATRI: I’m sure these are going to be the tastiest ones I’ve ever made!
Natsuki: I really hope so. Last night dinner was absolutely delicious.
ATRI: Heh, now you finally understand just how high-performance I am. It’s about time.
Just like we decided last night, we’re about to head out to spend the day together.
We have no clear destination in mind.
All we’ve planned is that we’re going to have a relaxing day.
Natsuki: Okay, let’s get going.
ATRI: Ah, wait just one second.
ATRI trots over to the calendar, and crosses off another day.
Eighteen days left…
ATRI: Right, let’s go.
Natsuki: Okay…
ATRI: Hmmhmmhmhmmm. ♪
As always, ATRI holds my hand as we walk and kicks up her feet with each step, showing off her shoes.
That little tuft of hair bounces on the top of her head.
Natsuki: Those shoes are starting to look pretty scruffy.
ATRI: That just shows how hard I’m working to be your leg!
She says that with her voice full of pride.
Although she might look like just a cute girl, ATRI’s strong enough to break through a concrete floor with a pickaxe. Those shoes are probably being worn down faster than they normally would.
Natsuki: Where should we go first?
ATRI: Umm…
She pulls a piece of paper our of her dress pocket, and starts looking over it.
Natsuki: What are you reading?
ATRI: It’s a secret!
She hurriedly puts away the mysterious note.
ATRI: One of the fundamental activities appears to be going shopping.
Fundamental activities? Of what?
I don’t have a clue what she means by that, but I may as well go along with her idea.
On the weekends, the market is rather lively.
There are even stalls open that aren’t here during the week.
We walk hand-in-hand through the crowds, perusing everyone’s wares.
Store owners call out to us, shouting “Good morning, professor”, and “You two are looking cute as always!”
I try to keep my conversations with people as short as possible, so I know very little about the lives of anyone here. They, however, seem to know all about us.
A lot of the shouts are specifically for ATRI. “You’re so cute today, ATRI!”, “You’re with the professor today?”, and so on. People seem surprised, since she’s been without me so much lately.
Natsuki: You seem pretty popular around here.
ATRI: That’s because everyone around here respects you so much, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: No, they all just think you’re cute. Everyone at school likes you more than me, too.
ATRI gets along with everyone there, even the students that I hardly talk to apart from to teach them.
ATRI: I suppose that’s another facet of my high-performance programming… It’s almost scary how lovable I am.
Natsuki: And how conceited…
Stall Owner: Oh, if it isn’t you two. Out on a date?
Natsuki: It’s nothing like-
ATRI: Yeah, we are.
Stall Owner: Then how about a fruit skewer? They’re just perfect for young ‘uns on a date like you two.
He’s selling sticks of fruit, mostly pineapple and melon, carved into cylinders and arranged on skewers.
ATRI: They look so sweet and yummy… *schlurp*!
ATRI: …N-No, I shouldn’t. I don’t requite the nutrition, after all.
Natsuki: No, it’s fine, I’ll buy you one. Which would you like?
ATRI: Huh, really!? But you’re flat broke, Natsuki-san!
You don’t have to put it that way… as accurate as it is.
Natsuki: We’ve been making decent amount from the salvage business lately, and you’ve been helping. It’s only fair.
ATRI: Well, in that case… Gah, which should I have? I can’t choose!
ATRI: I’ll have… That one! No, that one!
Stall Owner: Gotcha, one pineapple skewer coming right up.
Stall Owner: I’ll even give you the biggest one, because I’m that nice.
ATRI: Yayy, thank you!
Natsuki: Thanks.
I want one for myself too, but I don’t have enough hands to carry a fruit skewer and my walking stick while still holding ATRI’s hand.
I suppose I’ll just have to go without.
We set off with ATRI happily chomping away at her stick of pineapple.
ATRI: Mmn… *munch* *munch*!
Natsuki: Is that tasty?
ATRI: It’s really, really tart!
ATRI: But it’s so juicy and sweet too!
Watching her face twist as she chews the sour and sweet fruit, I can’t help but smile warmly.
ATRI: You’re being so nice today, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Am I not always nice?
ATRI: Not all of the time…
We exchange little jokes to hide our embarrassment.
Natsuki: Well, we’re on a date, aren’t we?
ATRI didn’t deny it when the store owner said so before. Quite the opposite, in fact.
ATRI: When two people who have declared that they love each other go out somewhere together, that is termed a “date.”
ATRI: Did you really not know that, Natsuki-san? Tsk, you’re so naïve…
Natsuki: …
This damn toaster…
ATRI: Owww! Don’t rub my head like that!
Natsuki: If this is a date, I guess I’ll have to be even nicer than usual. Not that I’ve been on any dates before to know what to do…
ATRI: I see, I’ve learned something. Here, have a bite too.
She holds the pineapple bar up to my mouth.
Given how much shorter than me she is, I’d have to stoop just to bite it. It’d be embarrassing to have everyone see that…
Natsuki: (…Who cares about that, though? Am I really going to let this little slice of happiness escape just our of embarrassment?)
I gird my loins, lean in, and take a bite.
Natsuki: Wow, it really is tart…
The powerful sourness makes my lips purse.
Natsuki: It’s still delicious, though.
After a moment my mouth is filled with an overwhelming sweetness.
ATRI: Delicious things make you happy, right? I’m glad you like it.
Natsuki: It’s surprising how happy a simple little thing like this can make you.
Now that I think about it, every day nice I arrived here-no, since I salvaged ATRI, has been full of these trivial, inconsequential little moments of joy.
ATRI: Mmmn! So tart! But so sweet! *munch*!
We trade bites as we walk along, until we reach the other side of the market.
Natsuki: (Hmm, should we go into a café or something? We did just eat that fruit, though.)
Although we’d originally planned to just wander around without any kind of plan today, somehow the knowledge that this is a “date” has changed the atmosphere.
I suddenly feel some kind of pressure to make this a good day.
Natsuki: (Gah, if I start panicking just because this is a date, what kind of man will she think I am?)
I don’s know much about romance, but I’ve heard enough stories to know that girls don’t like men who can’t keep themselves together.
Knowing that I’m on a date with the girl I love for the very first time, even if she probably doesn’t quite understand the situation, weight heavily on my mind.
Staring nervously down into the ground, I’m hit by a sudden idea.
Natsuki: Ah, I know! Let’s go and look at some shoes.
ATRI: Oh? Okay then.
We make our way to one of the shoe stalls in the market that sell pairs a young girl might like.
In front, racks are lined with sneakers, heels, and fancy leather shoes.
ATRI: Wow, there’s so many different kinds.
Natsuki: Yeah, quite the variety.
Normally I wouldn’t even be paying attention to the women’s shoes, but there really is a lot more variety to them in terms of color and design.
To my undiscerning eyes they all look like they’d quit ATRI, but I have no idea which would look best.
Natsuki: (And of them would be fine, but none of them jump out at me…)
ATRI: Hmm, I don’t think any of these would suit you, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: We’re not looking at them for me! They’re for you.
ATRI: What, for me?
Natsuki: Your current ones are pretty much falling apart. I’m going to buy you some new ones.
ATRI: These are fine. They’re still wearable.
ATRI: And they were the first thing that you ever bought for me! They’re precious to me!
Natsuki: Come on, don’t be silly. Are there any that take your fancy?
ATRI: Well…
ATRI: earnestly examines the racks.
ATRI: They’d have to be sturdy, and easy to move in. Waterproof, ideally, and obviously cheap.
Natsuki: I know the practicalities are important, but don’t forget to take the design into account too. Pick some that will suit you.
ATRI: What? I’m your support robot, Natsuki-san. The most suitable shoes for me, as your leg, would be the most practical and functional.
Natsuki: If you say so…
I sign.
ATRI: Umm…?
This is supposed to be a date. I just wanted to treat ATRI like a normal girl, not a robot.
Natsuki: (I guess I shouldn’t have got my hopes up…)
ATRI takes some time appraising the shoes, before finally picking out a pair.
Natsuki: So you want those ones?
ATRI: Yes!
They’re a pair of sandals, with a wooden base with a slightly raised heel and a leather strap.
I’d struggle to call these “practical” or “functional.”
I ask without really thinking.
Natsuki: Why did you choose these ones?
ATRI: Oh, are they not good?
Natsuki: No, I don’t mean that. I think they’d really suit you.
A stylish pair of sandals like these really would be a perfect fit on those delicate feet of hers.
ATRI: Well, the heel on them will make me slightly taller, won’t it? And that would make me a little bit closer to you…
Natsuki: ATRI…
ATRI: I think that qualifies as “functional,” doesn’t it?
Natsuki: Right, I’ll buy you these as a present. You deserve it, for how you’re always helping me out.
ATRI: No, you shouldn’t do that!
Natsuki: Why not? You do want them, don’t you?
ATRI: I do. But they’re far too expensive. Look…
I peek at the price tag, and let out a yelp like a strangled cat.
Natsuki: How can some leather attached to a bit of wood be so expensive?
ATRI: I believe that the function of “fashion” is often used to justify adding a premium to the price.
Natsuki: Still, it’s okay. I can afford this now.
ATRI: No way! If you buy these, you’ll be out of money again!
ATRI: You’re too dirt poor to buy things like these!
ATRI has a good handle on our financial situation, given that she does the shopping every day.
We’ve got a decent amount of savings piled up from our salvage jobs at the moment, but who knows how long the work will last?
Natsuki: …Okay, so how about I save up a little more, and then buy them for you?
ATRI: I’d love that.
I’m sure that these will definitely suit her, but maybe it’s for the best that I don’t buy them right now.
Now I’ve made a promise that I’ll buy them one day, and I’ll have to keep it.
ATRI: Shall we get going?
Natsuki: Yeah.
We leave the shoe stall, and for a while we simply wander around the market without buying anything.
Everyone smiles as we walk by, hand-in-hand.
Natsuki: I’m starting to get hungry.
ATRI: Let’s eat our lunches!
I’ve been inwardly looking forward to this since I saw her making them.
Natsuki: Where should we eat?
ATRI: …
ATRI peeks underneath her dress at a piece of paper.
Natsuki: …What have you been looking at all day?
ATRI: Th-This is, umm, err… It’s a secret!
She hurriedly stuffs the paper further down into her pocket.
ATRI: Let’s go over there!
She pulls me forcibly over in the direction that she points out.
We leave the market, and then the residential area as a whole.
After a short walk, we find ourselves on the island’s edge.
She’s lead me to and old park atop a hill.
Half of the area is submerged, but a part on the upper side of the slope still sticks out of the sea. On it are bench and a few things for children to play on.
Natsuki: I’m surprised that you know about a place like this.
I’ve never even seen this park before, having been the kind of child who hardly left the house.
ATRI: Hehe, I’ve collected some useful information from a few sources.
I see her glance down at that piece of paper again.
Natsuki: Ah, so Minamo?
ATRI: Among others, yes.
By which I assume she means the cooking club.
Natsuki: (Seems like they gave her some pretty good advice…)
This park seems like it used to be a raised spot where you could get a good view of the sea. Now, you can see all the way to the horizon.
The waves are lapping at the playthings that have been partially swallowed by the sea. It’s a rather uncanny sight.
ATRI: Okay, Let’s have our lunches.
I’ve really worked up an appetite on the way here.
ATRI sits on the bench and starts to take the lunch boxes out of her bag.
ATRI: There we go.
Inside, I see… Hamburg steak sandwiches, grilled meat squashed between two slices of toasted bread.
ATRI: I’m sorry that it’s just the same thing as last night. I’ve only really learned to make this so far.
Natsuki: That’s fine by me, when it’s as delicious as your steak are.
Putting them in a sandwich is at least a new spin on it. That’s enough for me.
ATRI: Hehe, well, okay then. Eat up!
Natsuki: Gladly. *munch*…
Natsuki: Hngh! Hurk! *cough* *cough*!
ATRI: Natsuki-san, what’s wrong!?
Natsuki: I-It’s nothing…
ATRI: It doesn’t look like nothing! You’re crying…
ATRI: reaches out a hand to wipe away my tears.
Natsuki: It’s just, err, so tasty that I got a little emotional.
ATRI: Hmm… Cyber-eyes, engage! Zoom, and enhance!
ATRI: Oh no, why is there so much mustard!? I must have recorded the appropriate measurement wrongly!
Natsuki: It’s fine, really! This just makes it more… stimulating!
I stuff the sandwich into my mouth even as the spiciness makes my nose run.
To be honest, even with that intense mustardy tang, it’s still delicious.
ATRI: Ahh… I just wanted to make you happy, and I’ve gone and messed it up…
ATRI pulls the remaining sandwiches apart and wipes off some of the mustard.
Natsuki: Not everything has to be perfect, you know. I prefer them like this, if anything.
ATRI: …What does that mean?
ATRI forward at me with a disbelieving pout. It’s like she’s looking at a madman.
I’m going to have to convince her.
Natsuki: It seems like you’ve put more soul into it this way.
ATRI: More… soul?
Natsuki: Yeah.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: ATRI?
ATRI: …You’re a strange person, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: I’m going to choose to take that as a compliment.
I chuckle.
I’m getting more than used to these cute little misunderstandings.
Natsuki: I’m not lying about these being tasty, by the way. Did you think that adding mustard would make it a little different to dinner last night?
ATRI: What a fantastic deduction, Natsuki-san! You really are smart.
ATRI: Can I eat some too?
Natsuki: Yeah, you should always enjoy the fruit of your own labor.
ATRI: Mmm, *chomp*… It’s pretty spicy, but it’s still tasty.
ATRI: I really made this, just for Natsuki-san…
ATRI falls silent as she eats her way through the sandwich.
ATRI: I’ve got it! I will call the sandwiches I make for you “Natsuki-san’s Miracle”!
Natsuki: What, all of them? That might get a little confusing.
ATRI: I’ll just have to add an identification number to each one. Let’s call these Mirace-001.
Well, that’s one solution…
We spend an awfully long time simply sitting there, relaxing as we eat much and sip tea. Even so, there’s still a lot of daylight left.
I while away the time sitting on the bench reading a book.
Instead of my usual engineering texts or academic papers, today I’m perusing a children’s book Ririka recommended to me.
I have a little trouble following along with all of the strange, crazy twists of fantasy novels like this, but it’s surprisingly fun when I get used to it.
All the while, ATRI is amusing herself.
ATRI: Ahaha, it’s so cold.
ATRI: Natsuki-san, come over here! It feels so nice in the water!
She splashes through the water submerging the lower half of the park, shoes in hand.
The gentle waves glimmer in the afternoon sun, the spray framing her in sparking light.
ATRI: Are you listening to me, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: Yeah, yeah…
ATRI: Grr… Take this! ♪
ATRI kicks up a huge splash in my direction.
Natsuki: Hey…!
ATRI: Hahaha! C’mon, come over here! ♪
Natsuki: You’ll regret saying that…!
I throw off my shoes, and rush over to her without even picking up my walking stick.
I scoop up a handful of water and throw it over her.
ATRI: Ahhh!
ATRI: Grr, you’ve done it now! Take this! And this! ♪
Natsuki: Hurk!
ATRI: Haha, what a silly face!
Natsuki: Dammit, you…!
ATRI: Heh, I’ve already got you figured out. I’ve learned all of your attack patterns!
Natsuki: Huh, you think so? You didn’t count on that being a feint just then though, did you?
ATRI: Arrgh!
Natsuki: Hahaha, never underestimate the quick thinking of a human being!
The two of us frolic together in the waves like little children.
I wonder to myself how it’s possible for intelligent, cultured humans to get so lost in such silliness… As I’m getting lost in such silliness.
I’m so engrossed in the frivolity that I completely forget that I’m thrashing around in the waves with a prosthetic leg and no walking stick.
Natsuki: Whoa!-
It’s no surprise that I suddenly find myself toppling down into the water.
ATRI: Ahh, Natsuki-san!
I scramble around under the surface, salty water filling my mouth.
ATRI: Grab onto me!
ATRI reaches out her hand, and pulls me up.
Natsuki: Phew!
Natsuki: Hahh, jeez…
ATRI: Are you okay, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: I’m fine. Thanks, ATRI…
ATRI: No need to thank me. This is my job, after all.
I’m happy to have her here to pull me out of the ocean like this, but…
Natsuki: (Sh-She’s so close…)
ATRI: What’s wrong? Your face is all red.
Natsuki: I, err, I think I’m just a little tired from playing around like this.
ATRI: You’re like a little kid sometimes, Natsuki-san.
Smiling gently down at me, she helps me to stand.
Water drips down my face.
Coming back to my senses, I realize my cheeks are burning so hot that they may well be steaming.
Natsuki: (If Ryuuji saw me playing around like this, I’d never hear the end of it.)
To be honest, I’m surprised myself that I have this kind of side.
Natsuki: (I’m always discovering new things about myself around ATRI…)
I wonder if ATRI feels the same way. It’s does seem to me like she’s changing too.
Natsuki: Hey, ATRI. Have you remembered anything else lately?
We haven’t really talked about her memories since she remembered meeting me as a child.
It doesn’t seem like we’ve made any major progress since then.
ATRI: Hmm, well…
Natsuki: Huh…?
ATRI suddenly turns her eyes to the faraway blue horizon.
ATRI: The place where we met is at the bottom of the sea now, isn’t it?
Natsuki: Yeah…
I can’t even be sure where it was, but it would have long been swallowed up by the waves.
It may well have been somewhere we could have seen from this park, but who is to know now?
ATRI: You’re very different to how you were back then, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Well, a lot has happened to me since then. So many horrible things, things that left me utterly hopeless…
Natsuki: But everything’s changed now. I’m so happy now that I’m here with Minamo, and Ryuuji, and Ririka…
Natsuki: …And you, ATRI.
ATRI: Natsuki-san…
I want to say it.
I want to tell her that I love her.
But if she doesn’t understand again…
I feel like this spark of happiness that I hold in my hands might just burn out.
I’m overcome with fear. I say nothing.
ATRI: I marked another cross on the calendar this morning.
Natsuki: Huh? Oh, yeah…
That calendar, counting down the days until we part ways.
ATRI: …Even after that, I want to stay with you.
Natsuki: Huh…?
ATRI: Is that suitable as a response to your feelings?
Natsuki: Wait, so… That’s your answer to me telling you that I love you?
She nods.
ATRI: …I learned something.
I pull her in close, stroking he hair as I hold her tightly to me.
Natsuki: I want you to stay with me forever.
ATRI: If that is what you want, I will.
Natsuki: Of course it’s what I want.
ATRI wraps her arms around me in return.
ATRI: This means that we’re lovers now, aren’t we? I’ve learned a lot of things, so I understand that now.
ATRI: I think this might be against the Human-Humanoid Ethics Regulations, but…
Natsuki: Who cares about that?
ATRI: Natsuki-san… I love you.
I want to just turn around and scream into the great blue yonder.
This is the happiest moment of my life!
It’s morning again.
A morning that feels almost like the dawn of an entirely new age.
Natsuki: Hahhh…
Yawning, I stretch and look to my side.
ATRI: Zzz… Zzz…
ATRI is happily snoozing away next to me.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Mmmph… Natsuki-san, you dummy… You’re so silly…
Natsuki: Jeez, she’s even having an argument with me in her sleep.
We’re officially boyfriend and girlfriend now.
The previous night…
ATRI: What, you’re not even going to hug me to sleep tonight!?
Natsuki: That was just to cure my phantom pain, and thinks to you, I don’t have to worry about that any more.
ATRI: Why does it have to be for a specific reason!? C’mon, why not just let me sleep with you!?
ATRI: Lovers like us are supposed to be stuck together like magnets! Tsk, this is another one of those things you’re just too naïve to know, isn’t it?
ATRI: C’mon! C’mon, let’s do it! C’mooooon!
Natsuki: Gah…
She clings onto my chest, shaking me like a spoiled child.
Natsuki: …Sorry, but no!
I throw myself under the covers, falling asleep as fast as I can, alone.
ATRI was… less than satisfied with that. She tried all manner of tricks throughout the night to try and worm her way into my sanctuary of solitude.
Natsuki: (I do really want to hug her…)
To be honest, the desire is utterly overwhelming.
But, well…
Now that we both know how we feel about each other, sleeping like that might lead to things getting a little spicy.
Natsuki: (Plus, it’s just embarrassing!)
Natsuki: Maybe I could just cuddle her a little now, though. She doesn’t seem to be walking up…
I hesitantly try to hug the sleeping ATRI.
ATRI: Hmmmn…
She twitches.
I instantly jerk back… But it doesn’t seem like I woke her.
Natsuki: …What on earth am I doing? What kind of boyfriend tries to mess around with his girlfriend in her sleep?
Shaking my head, I let go of her.
Natsuki: She really isn’t waking up, though. She’s been even less of a morning person lately.
I gently shake her.
Natsuki: Wake up, ATRI. We’re going to be late.
ATRI: Ugghhh… Mmnn…
Sighing, I jostle her shoulder roughly.
Natsuki: Come on, dammit. If you don’t wake up, we’re going without breakfast today.
ATRI: Breakfast…
Ah, that looks like it got her to reboot.
Typical. She might not need the nutrition, but she never misses the chance for food.
Cling onto my arm, she awkwardly starts to pull herself upright.
ATRI: Good morningggg… Hahhhh…
Natsuki: It seems like you’re getting even worse at waking up lately.
ATRI: It just feels so nice sleeping next to you.
Natsuki: You think I’m going to let you laze around here just because you say things like that?
ATRI: Yep! ♪
Natsuki: Grr… you’re still annoying, even if you are my girlfriend.
I gently hug her against me.
ATRI: Oh?
Natsuki: It’s just not fair, you being this cute.
She wraps her arms around me, and snuggles up against my chest.
ATRI: Hehe, you’re just as cute, Natsuki-san.
She strokes my hair, such a soft and gentle sensation that for a moment I’m completely enraptured.
ATRI: If we don’t get moving soon, we’ll be late for school.
Natsuki: I know, I know. Just give am another thirty seconds.
ATRI: Tsk, greedy boy.
She counts down thirty seconds with atomic clock-grade precision before letting go of me.
We quickly eat breakfast, and get ready to leave.
Natsuki: You’ll be having gym class today, so make sure you’ve got what you need.
ATRI: Okaaay.
Just before we leave the ship, ATRI marks off another day on the calendar.
ATRI: Right, all ready. Let’s go!
I think for a moment about how unnecessary that is now, but I don’t tell her that.
As a robot, it might just be a subroutine in her programming that she feels the need to follow.
Gym class today is in the morning.
How exactly are we going to do exercise in a half-submerged school, you may be wondering.
Given how few students we have, we could probably use the roof for a lot of things. Catherine apparently does some morning exercises with the younger children up there.
That’s not the case today, though.
Catherine: Right, when you’re finished changing, go outside and get warmed up.
The little ones rush out of the classroom, followed by the middle school and high school kids.
Everyone is wearing swimsuits.
We don’t have any school-issue swimsuits, so everyone is wearing whatever they have to hand.
We also don’t have a pool, but that’s not really a problem when the school is half-swallowed by the sea.
Ririka: Can we start swimming now?
Minamo: No, not yet. If you don’t warm up, you’ll pull a muscle.
Ryuuji: Oh, you’re change too, Natsu? Will you even be okay swimming?
Natsuki: As long as the water’s shallow enough that I can tough the bottom, I’m fine.
We aren’t just going to be playing around, though. That would be far too dangerous here.
We decide that the safest place to swim would probably be where a huge section of the school’s outer wall has fallen over in one piece.
We string out some volleyball nets we salvaged from the sunken gym to form a boundary, and start out swimming class.
Yoko: Whoa, I totally didn’t realize you’d got such a bangin’ bod, Minamo!
Minamo: I-I do?
Yoko: Go and show yourself off to Natsuki-kun.
Minamo: B-But Natsu-kun has ATRI-chan…
Yoko: What’s going on with those two now, anyway?
Minamo: I don’t know… Looks like they’re getting along just the same as normal.
ATRI: So we’re just going to be diving today? That happens to be my forte! My specifications indicate that I’m capable of operating at depths of up to thirty meters!
Catherine: We’re not diving, we’re swimming! Don’t go doing anything the rest of these little brats are going to end up copying.
ATRI: Swimming…?
ATRI suddenly looks uneasy, glancing over at me for help.
ATRI: I can’t actually swim.
ATR: My body wasn’t designed with the necessary reserves of useless fat like Catherine or Minamo…
Catherine: Tsk, “useless”? Sexiness is born of excess, you know.
Catherine squeezes her arms together on either side of her chest, flaunting that “excess,” ahem, rather powerfully.
Ririka: Can you do that too, Minamo-chan?
Yoko: Oooh, I wanna see that!
Minamo: Wh-What? Hang on…!
Natsuki: …
I suddenly find myself staring very hard at Minamo for some reason…
Minamo: Umm… Here goes nothing!
Minamo crosses her arms and pushes her breasts up, their softness jiggling quite enticingly.
Ririka: Wow, that’s amazing, Minamo-chan!
Catherine: Pssh, you’re still just a kid. You’ve got nothing on me.
Natsuki: …
Minamo: Eeep…
ATRI: Grr…
ATRI starts pushing me away from Minamo like a tiny bulldozer.
Natsuki: H-Hey, stop that!
ATRI: Grr, I’m so mad! I can’t believe you’d cheat on me like this!
Natsuki: H-Hey, I didn’t do anything!
ATRI: Hmph. Who needs useless fat? Not me. Nope.
She walks off, pouting and grumbling.
And so our swimming class gets off to an inauspicious start.
We split up into the elementary, middle, and high schoolers.
ATRI, not being able to swim, is stuck with the little kids.
ATRI: Gahh… It’s not just that I can’s swim, I don’t even float.
Ririka: ATRI, you can use this if you want!
ATRI: What’s that?
Ririka: It’s a rubber ring. I brought it to play with, but we’re not allowed to use it in class.
ATRI pops the ring around her waist.
ATRI: Ooh, I can actually float like this. Thanks, Ririka!
Ririka: That’s great! Let’s start with the doggy paddle!
ATRI: Roger!
The two line up side-by-side and start flapping their legs.
Natsuki: Hmm, looks like they’re getting along fine over there.
Ryuuji: Dude, are you in any position to be worrying about other people here?
Natsuki: I’ll be fine, I’m not going to swim anyway.
Naturally, I’ve taken my prosthetic off to get in the pool.
There are people who can swim with one leg, but I’m not among them.
I’ve been avoiding going into pools or the sea outside of my sub since the day I lost my leg. I’d always though of swimming as a completely pointless thing to learn in my situation.
Natsuki: (I never thought I’d end up being forced into doing this in a class, though…)
Ryuuji: Man you’re a salvage tech, and you live on a damn boat. You’ve really gotta know how to, y’know, not drown.
Natsuki: When did you suddenly start saying things that are sensible?
I have, to be fair, almost drowned from slipping off the sub trying to save ATRI, and ended up being the one who needed saving.
Minamo: It’s not really that hard to swim, Natsu-kun. I’ll teach you.
Ryuuji: I’ll help out too.
Natsuki: …Why do you two look like you’re enjoying this so much?
Ryuuji: Heh, it’s just kinda fun to find out a super-perfect guy like you’s go a weak spot.
Minamo: I’m just happy to help you out, Natsu-kun.
Natsuki: …Whatever. Okay, let’s do this.
As shameful as it is to have my weakness exposed like this, as I’m essentially the teacher for the other high school kids, I can’t exactly turn down learning something. What kind of example would that set?
Minamo: First we’ll practice opening your eyes underwater.
Natsuki: Don’t make fun of me. I can already do that much, at least.
Minamo: Okay, well, let’s practice taking your foot off of the bottom while your face is underwater, then.
Natsuki: …Isn’t that a little bit of a step up?
Ryuuji: Nah, it’s gonna by easy. We’ll be looking after you, so don’t worry.
Natsuki: Okay…
I dip my head into the water, and lift my foot from the bottom.
My body floats quite easily.
Natsuki: There we go, easy.
Minamo: Very good, Natsu-kun.
Just as I’m basking in her praise, a little wave suddenly splashes against my side.
Natsuki: Whoa…!
It knocks me off balance. I instinctively reach out for whatever’s close to me and pull myself toward it.
Natsuki: Guh, that we close. I though I was going to die. Tsk, I knew the sea was too dangerous for me…
Minamo: Y-Yeah, maybe it is…
Natsuki: Huh? What’s this odd sensation?
My face feels like it’s squished against something soft and jiggly…
Natsuki: Wait, is this…?
Minamo: Ah, umm…
Ah. So the thing I grabbed was Minamo.
…And the place I close to rest my head while I got my breath back was her chest.
Natsuki: I-I’m sorry, Minamo!
Minamo: I-It’s fine…
Natsuki: I’ll just-Whoa!
I try to put my foot down, but the bottom isn’t where I except it to be. It simply flaps in the water, and another wave rushes against my side as I flail.
I instinctively grab hold of Minamo again, and squish my face into her cleavage.
Natsuki: Mmnph!
Minamo: Ahhh!
Natsuki: I-I’m really sorry!
Minamo: I-It’s okay, are you all right? You don’t need to panic so much.
Natsuki: I-I’m fine… I was afraid I’d taken my last breath for a moment, but still…
Yoko: Heh, thought you were gonna suffocate in her boods, did you?
Minamo: Huh!?
Natsuki: N-No, I just thought I was going to drown!
Ryuuji: Bwahahahaha! Natsu, you lucky bastard!
Natsuki: Don’t just laugh at me, help!
Ryuuji: Tsk, you really want me to get in the way of your happy fun times?
Natsuki: (Grr… I knew I should have stayed out of the water!)
Trapped in this marshmallow hell, counting my regrets…
ATRI: Double Torpedo Punch!!!
Another one suddenly gets added.
Natsuki: HURK!?
Something rushes along the surface of the water like a missile and rams into my side, sending me flying.
I bounce off of the volleyball nets, and land in someone’s arms.
Natsuki: What the-!?
ATRI: What the hell do you think you’re doing, Natsuki-san!?
Natsuki: A-ATRI…
The missile was actually ATRI, shooting across the water in the world’s fastest doggy-paddle.
ATRI: …
She holds me up out of the water, staring at me furiously.
Natsuki: Ahem, S-Something wrong, my love?
ATRI: You idiot! You cheaster!!!
She hurls me across the pool, and I crash into the water with an enormous splash. As I start to sink into the inky depths of the sea, I’m given ample time to think about my situation. Specifically…
Natsuki: (This is exactly the kind of situation I need to learn to swim for, isn’t is?)
I make a solemn oath in my heart to try my hardest in this class from now on.
Minamo: Are you all right, Natsu-kun?
Natsuki: Barely. I almost died again…
ATRI: Hmph!
ATRI has been clinging to me ever since the incident in the pool, pouting and scowling.
Natsuki: ATRI, it was just a misunderstanding. I didn’t mean to-
ATRI: Hmph! Hmph, I say!
Minamo: …
Minamo: Hang on, are you two…?
Natsuki: …
Natsuki: Yes, we’ve officially started dating.
ATRI: …
Minamo: Ohhh, I see! Congratulations!
Minamo: I’m sorry, ATRI-chan. I really didn’t know…
ATRI: It’s not your fault, Minamo. All you did was expose those lumps of fat to the world.
ATRI: It’s Natsuki-san’s fault for reaching to them.
Natsuki: I’m sorry. I admit complete and unmitigated liability.
ATRI: That doesn’t mean I’m forgiving you.
Ryuuji: Wow, she’s got you on the leesh already. I told you, women have two sides to them.
Minamo: Hehe, it really looks like it.
Before long, the entire school is aware of our relationship.
The school day comes to a close.
ATRI: Hey, cheater.
Natsuki: Could you stop calling me that?
ATRI: I have club activities today, so go home.
I’ve never known her to be this cold…
Natsuki: I’ll wait here until you’re done, and we’ll go home together.
ATRI: …
ATRI: Have you been reflecting properly on your actions?
Natsuki: I have indeed.
ATRI: You promise never to cheat on me again?
Natsuki: Of course.
ATRI: And you’ll buy me something sweet to eat on the way home?
Natsuki: Absolutely. A pineapple bar, some chocolate, anything you want.
ATRI: Hmm, then I suppose I can forgive you. Wait for me until after the club, then.
Natsuki: Thank you, ATRI!
I decide to carry out a little maintenance on the turbine while I wait for her.
We’ve improved it quite a lot recently, and its rapidly becoming more and more efficient.
Natsuki: If we create lanes to guide and flow, it should speed up the water in the whirlpool and increate the rate the turbine spins at.
Catherine: My, you’ve certainly cheered up since earlier.
Catherine peeks her head around the door.
Natsuki: Huh? It’s not like I’m in a particular good mood or anything.
I’m definitely happier than I was earlier, but I wouldn’t say that I look particular different from usual, at least on the surface.
Catherine: You were humming to yourself.
Natsuki: …
Natsuki: …That was completely unconscious.
I suppose I am a little happier about making up with ATRI than I thought.
Catherine: For a brat that looks so perfect on the surface, you’re kinda not all there something. I suppose that’s what makes you so cute.
Catherine: This turbine’s a lifesaver, though. Now that we can run a computer, there’s so much more we can do in class.
Catherine: It’s giving the students something to be proud of, too.
Natsuki: Really? They’re proud of it?
Catherine: Yeah. People need something to be proud of, even if it’s just one thing, to give them some kind of reason to go on.
We’ve brought one building’s worth of brightness to this lightless town.
It doesn’t sound like much, but it’s had a bigger effect than I could have ever imagined.
“I’ve had people coming up to me saying that I’ve brightened up the whole town.”
I suppose that’s the kind of pride that Catherine is talking aobut.
Catherine: We’ve had a couple of new student applications too. They’ll be starting next week.
Natsuki: You must be getting busy. Are you sure you’re all right on your own?
Natsuki: Can’t we try and get another teacher?
Catherine: We’ve got no chance of getting anyone to come to a school like this. And even if by some miracle we did, the Board of Education would just block them.
The government has been putting pressure on countryside towns like this to evacuate to the bigger cities.
I suppose they don’t want to look like they’re letting stricken areas die by not sending any aid.
Catherine: But we still have people who want to stay in this town, and students that want to study here.
Catherine: And as long as there’s a single one that wants to come to this school, I’m going to keep teaching them.
Natsuki: …You’ve changed a lot, you know. I can’t imagine you as a debt collector any more.
Catherine: You can thank Ririka for that.
Catherine: With her around, I’ve got all the motivation I need.
Natsuki: I can see that. That girl’s got a bright future ahead of her.
Since Catherine overhauled the classes here, Ririka has only become more hungry to learn. Her grades have been going through the roof.
Catherine: Thanks to the turbine you made, she’s been staying up every night reading books from the library.
Natsuki: Yeah, I know. When I get to school, she runs up to me holding a book and asks me all kinds of things about it.
From the moment I arrive, to the moment class starts, she fires question after question at me.
Catherine: But out of all of the kids here, she’s the only who needs the most help.
She doesn’t have parents, or even a home.
According to Minamo, she used to live in an orphanage, but she ran away.
As energetic and positive a girl as she is, under the surface there must be a lot of pain.
Catherine: I want her to be able to study at The Academy one day.
Natsuki: …
Catherine: In order for that to happened, I’m going to need your help.
Natsuki: Getting into a school like that doesn’t mean she’ll be happy there…
Catherine: What to you mean? Of course she will.
Natsuki: Think it would to best if she decided her own future. We just have to help give her as many options as possible.
I have to admit, I’m surprised by her determination. I really don’t know what happiness looks like for Ririka.
For me, I’m so much happier now than when I was studying for my life back at The Academy.
Catherine: Anyway, are things going well with ATRI?
Natsuki: …Why are you asking me that?
Catherine: Eh, no reason. Seems like my help had a pretty good effect, right?
Natsuki: I’m really grateful.
Catherine: Well, that’s unexpectedly honest of you.
Catherine: Hehe, you’ve not been such an objectionable brat lately. I much prefer you this way.
Catherine: So, you be good to her, you hear?
Natsuki: Right…
She pats me on the shoulder, and walks away.
Minamo: So the confession went well?
ATRI: Yes, I managed to make him understand how I feel, thanks to everyone’s help.
ATRI: Particular, thanks to the how-to guides you lent me.
Minamo: Hehe, well, they were shojo manga, not how-tos, but I’m glad they helped.
Minamo: Ahhh, it’s so nice. I wish I could have a manga-style romance like that.
ATRI: It wasn’t just those, though. I’m really grateful for all of the other advice you gave me.
Minamo: I was really surprised about what happened earlier, though. I feel kind of bad for Natsu-kun, but it was so cute seeing you all jealous.
ATRI: I learned that in those how-to guides too.
Minamo: Well, I suppose now I should teach you something that you can cook for Natsu-kun that’ll make him really happy.
ATRI: Ah, I would love that, but…
Minamo: Hmm?
ATRI: I’m a robot intended to help human beings, so it feels odd always being the one getting help…
ATRI: So I want to do something to help you, Minamo.
Minamo: Me? Oh no you don’t have to do that. I’m fine just seeing that you’re happy, ATRI-chan.
ATRI: Minamo…. I think you might just be the nicest person in the world.
Minamo: Oh, I’m really not. Everyone says I’m just really mild-mannered…
ATRI: Don’t you have anyone that you love, Minamo? If you do, I’ll help you like you did me.
Minamo: Err…!
Minamo: Well, umm… Not really…
ATRI: You don’t have to be shy. Tell me, tell me!
Minamo: …
ATRI: What’s wrong? You look really sad all of a sudden… Did I say something wrong?
Yoko: Atricchi, come here for a sec.
ATRI: Huh?
Yoko: There are times when you shouldn’t pry too much into people’s love lives. Not that, err, we’re ones to talk in that respect.
ATRI: Huh…
Yoko: Sometimes a girl wants to keep her love a secret, y’know?
ATRI: …I’ve learned something.
ATRI: I’m sorry, Minamo. That was something I hadn’t learned yet.
Minamo: It’s fine, I’m sorry for making things weired.
Minamo: Don’t worry about me. You should concentrate on enjoying your own happiness.
ATRI: I should? That’s another thing I’ve learned…
Yoko: Hey, President Minamo! You subjects need you. Stop chatting, and let’s get cooking!
Minamo: Okay, everybody! Aprons on!
ATRI: Hmm, nikujaga, a classic Japanese family dish made of meat and potatoes. Let’s give this a shot…
Natsuki: ATRI.
ATRI: Thanks for waiting, Natsuki-san.
When the Cooking Club finishes up, ATRI comes skittering out of the classroom toward me.
Minamo and the others follow behind her.
Minamo: Hehe, you’re going to absolutely love your dinner tonight, Natsu-kun.
Natsuki: Oh? What, something new on the menu?
ATRI: Yes, but it’s a secret. It’s going to give you a big surprise.
ATRI: So, let’s get going.
Natsuki: Okay.
Minamo: Bye bye, you two.
ATRI: Mmm, *munch*!
On the way home, ATRI and I walk hand in hand as she chomps on a chocolate bar.
ATRI: Mmm, it’s a different kind of sweetness to the pineapple. My high-sensitivity taste sensors grade it a three-point-five out of five.
Natsuki: Huh, that’s pretty harsh.
ATRI: What do you mean? I’m never anything but fair.
She peers up at me with a furrowed brow.
I have a feeling we’ve had this a conversation like this before.
ATRI: So, Natsuki-san, we’re really dating now, aren’t we?
Natsuki: Yeah…
It still makes me blush to hear myself saying that.
ATRI: …Nothing seems to have changed, though.
There’s a note of uneasiness in her voice.
Natsuki: W-Well, we’re taking it slow. These things happen gradually, step-by-step.
ATRI: I see. So what is the next step?
Natsuki: Well, I guess the first thing a new couple would generally do would be to hold hands…
I look down at our already-entwined fingers.
ATRI: Hold on! Does this mean we’ve been dating this whole time!?
Natsuki: No, friends and family can hold hands too.
ATRI: Oh… Well, what’s next, then?
Natsuki: …U-Umm, I have no idea. So, err, nice weather we’re having-
ATRI: Don’t try to change the subject! You don’t know what the next step is, do you? How pathetic!
Natsuki: Of course I know, you piece of scrap! It’s kissing!
I snap back at her without quite realizing what I’m saying.
ATRI: Oh… Well, we’ve already done that too, haven’t we?
Natsuki: No, no, that time doesn’t count. That was just CPR!
ATRI: CPR doesn’t count?
Natsuki: Err, yeah. It’s, umm, complicated.
ATRI: So, what do we do after that?
Natsuki: I-It’s too early to be thinking about that!
I instantly find myself extremely flustered, for some reason.
ATRI: Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: Err, sorry about that. Ignore me, ahem. Let’s go home.
I grab her hand and hurriedly start walking.
ATRI: You’re acting strange, Natsuki-san… *chomp*!
Thankfully, ATRI’s too occupied with her chocolate to press me further.
Later that night, I get to sample ATRI’s new menu.
ATRI: It’s nikujaga!
Ta-dah!
ATRI: Hehehe, how does it look? Minamo told me that the taste of their mother’s nikujaga is imprinted in every Japanese person’s DNA!
Natsuki: Huh, is that so? I’ve never eaten it before, myself.
ATRI: Huh? How is that even possible, though?
Natsuki: What do you mean by that?
ATRI: She told me every mother makes this for their children.
Natsuki: Well, mine never made it for me. It really is the first time I’ve had it.
ATRI stumbles back in shock.
ATRI: How can that be!? If that’s the case, then it’ll be the taste of mine that ends up in your DNA…
ATRI: And that would make me your mother!?
Natsuki: I really don’t think that’s how it works.
ATRI: It’s fine, you can even call me “mommy” if you really want to.
Natsuki: Not a chance!
ATRI: Tsk, looks like my spoiled little boy has hit his rebellious phase. Come on now, don’t be a baby, eat up.
Natsuki: …Yes, mommy.
I pick up some of the steaming meat and potatoes with my chopsticks.
Natsuki: …Mmm, it’s good. There’s something about boiled potatoes that’s just really comforting.
ATRI: That’s the kind of happiness only a mother’s food can bring, right?
Natsuki: Just to be clear, you are not my mother.
ATRI: I see… I’ve learned something.
It’s not as familiar a taste to me as it is to most, but it’s certainly delicious.
After dinner I take a shower, pondering my grandmother’s research notes as I wash myself.
When I emerge, ATRI is sitting at the table.
ATRI: We went to school for the first time as a couple. Natsuki-san seemed nervous’… Hehe!
She’s happily scribbling away at her logs.
ATRI: Ah, I suppose I need to write that down too… “Today, Natsuki-san cheated on me. He seems to be dissatisfied with the dimensions of my body”…
Natsuki: …
For a second, she doesn’t notice me behind her. But when she does…
ATRI: NO peeking!
She flops her entire body down on the notebook to conceal it from my prying eyes.
Natsuki: Why not? It’s fine, right?
ATRI: No! Go over there, where you can’t see!
She pushes me away over toward the bed.
ATRI: We had nikujaga for dinner, a new addition to my menu. Natsuki-san strongly denied that I was his mother.
Natsuki: (Why does she even need to notes down that kind of thing?)
Her logs are supposed to be for professional engineers to gleam useful information from.
I’m not sure I want some third party reading about me cheating and getting into weird conversations about being my girlfriend being my mother.
I recline on the bed, listening to the noise of the radio as I take off my prosthetic.
It was already not in the best condition, but since I was reunited with ATRI I’ve been so active that it’s growing increasingly beaten-up.
Natsuki: (I really need to get this fixed. Maybe I’ll ask Ryuuji.)
If it break completely, I’ll be unable to walk at all.
I could even think about drawing up some plans and creating a new one myself.
The radio is playing a lilting classical tune, which mean it’s almost time for bed.
Natsuki: (Hmm, how am I going to sleep tonight?)
To be completely honest, I really want to hug ATRI to sleep, but I can’t bring myself to tell her.
I suppose I’ll have to sleep alone.
Before ATRI has a chance to start pouting and moaning, I get in bed and secrete myself under the coves. I soon notice that there’s something else under here…
Natsuki: Huh? What’s this pillow?
It’s not the one I normally use.
It’s got a cover on, with something embroidered into it.
“YES.”
Natsuki: …
I turn it over.
“NO.”
Natsuki: Err, ATRI. What is this?
ATRI: Oh, Catherine gave me that! It’s a “yes/no pillow”!
ATRI: I told her about how you were too embarrassed to ask me to sleep with you, so she gave me that.
Natsuki: That damn pervy old drunkard…
ATRI: It’s the perfect item for shy boys like you who have trouble expressing those pesky embarrassing you have. It’ll give me some very subtle clues as to how you’re feeling.
Natsuki: Subtle? It’s got “YES” written on it in huge letters!
ATRI: Well, you know that it’s always a “YES” from me! I should have one with it on both sides, if anything. Hmm, I should write this down now.
I hear her mumbling “Got a ‘yes-no pillow’…” as she scribbles.
Natsuki: Don’t put that in your logs! Please, for goodness’ sake…
I don’t want to think about anyone else getting their hands on them…
ATRI: There, all alone. I should get ready for bed too.
ATRI: Hmmhmm, hmmhmm…
ATRI takes off her clothes and puts on the big, puffy drawers Minamo bought her. She climbs onto the bed with me.
ATRI: Come on, you can hug me if you want, you know.
ATRI: It’s always a “YES” from me!
She gazes down at me with puppy-dog eyes, clutching the pillow to her chest.
Natsuki: Gah…
I don’t want her to think I’m the kind of man who can be tempted this easily… And I don’t want to have to admit that to myself, either.
But still…
Natsuki: You idiot…
Unable to resist my natural instincts, I pull her down onto the bed and into my embrace.
ATRI: Squeeeeeze!
ATRI: Ahh, I haven’t hugged you this close for such a long time! ♪
Natsuki: …I’m sorry, I’m just stubborn sometimes.
There’s no point hiding it now, is there?
ATRI: Hehe, you’re so cute when you’re honest.
ATRI: A good boy like you deserves his head patted, so just relax and go to sleep.
A few days ago, being in this position left me unable to sleep all night from nerves.
But today, I’m not just even more tired after our adventures in the pool. There’s also this mutual feeling of comfortable affection between us…
Blissfully enjoying ATRI’s soft hands rustling my hair, I drift off into a peaceful sleep…
Natsuki: ATRI, wake up. C’mon, ATRI.
Natsuki: ATRI…
I tap her forehead.
I even lightly slap her cheeks.
…
She doesn’t make even the slightest movement.
Natsuki: ATRI? Hey, ATRI!
I raise my voice, shaking her strongly.
ATRI: …Ugh… Ughhh…
She makes a reassuringly sleepy noise.
For a moment, I though she’d broken down completely.
Natsuki: She’s really been struggling to wake up lately.
I’ve never heard of such a “low-voltage” robot before, one that struggles to even get up in the morning.
Natsuki: I suppose those human-like aspects are part of what makes her cute…
I sit on the side of the bed, smiling down at her sleeping face when I feel something strange underfoot…
Natsuki: Is that… a book? A manga?
On the cover is a girl with huge, sparking eyes, like a terrifying human-insect hybrid that’s fallen in a vat of glitter. That’s shojo manga for you.
Natsuki: …Did she borrow these from someone?
There’s few volumes under the bed. Did she hide these out of embarrassment?
Natsuki: So she reads these kinds of things too…
Raising an eyebrow, I flick through the pages. I come to a stop on a particular scene.
The main character and the boy she’s in love with are kissing.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Zzz… Mmmn…
I slam the manga back underneath the bed… ATRI doesn’t wake up. Phew.
Natsuki: Right, come on, up with you. If you don’t, you’re going to regret it…
I start tweaking her cheeks and pinching her nose.
ATRI: Nngh… Mmnph, mmn…
Natsuki: You’re still not going to get up? Well… In that case, umm, I have no choice.
I bring my face close to her.
Natsuki: If there’s anything that’s going to wake you up… It’s got to be this, right?
I lean in closer, and just as my lips are about to brush against hers…
ATRI: Mmn… Natsuki-san?
Her eyes open.
Natsuki: …Err, good morning.
ATRI: Good morning… You’re a little bit close, aren’t you?
Natsuki: I was, ahem, just trying to wake you up.
ATRI: …You were going to headbutt me? Tsk, you really shouldn’t resort to violence like that.
She mumbles blearily, still half-asleep.
Natsuki: …Huh? Your eyes, they just…
ATRI: Hmmmn?
Natsuki: It’s nothing. Don’t worry about it.
ATRI: Understood, “Not worrying about it” protocols engaged…
ATRI: Hahhhhn… Ah, that was a nice sleep.
Natsuki: (That was close. Too close.)
I wonder what would have happened if I’d been a second quicker.
I set about putting on my prosthetic, turning my back on ATRI and concentrating as hard as I can to think about nothing else.
ATRI peers over my shoulder curiously.
ATRI: I’m a little jealous of that girl…
ATRI: O-Only a little, though!
Natsuki: Girl’? You’re anthropomorphizing my prosthetic now?
ATRI: It must be nice to be born like that, just to be useful to you, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: If you say so…
ATRI looks down on the beaten-up contraption with envious eyes.
ATRI: What a privilege it must be, to get to be strapped to you every day until she breaks. Tsk, the little low-performance hussy…
Natsuki: …
Natsuki: …You want to strap yourself to me too?
As soon as the word leaves my mouth, I feel my face burn red.
ATRI: I’d love that! ♪
ATRI throws her arms around me, squishing her cheek against mine.
Natsuki: Jeez, you’re heavy…
ATRI: Hey, you’re not supposed to say that to a lady! It said so in the how-to guides I borrowed from Minamo!
Natsuki: (Ah, so she’s her accomplice.)
She’s been learning about romance form these books, huh?
…For my sake?
ATRI: Well, you’ll just have to deal with it.
Pouting adorably, she playfully clings onto me.
It’s so cute that I pretend to be having more trouble putting on my leg just so she keeps doing it.
ATRI: Brushy brushy brushy brushy…
As is our usual morning ritual, after breakfast we both stand before the mirror brushing our teeth.
As always, the little cowlick on the top of ATRI’s head is in prime position my vision, bobbing up and down energetically.
ATRI turns, and taps on my arm.
ATRI: Ahhhhh…
I start brushing her back teeth without a word.
I clean them as thoroughly and carefully as I can.
ATRI: Shake yoush.
ATRI: *gurglegurgle*… Pfft!
After she finishes gargling, I tap her on the shoulder.
Natsuki: Ahhhh…
ATRI: You want me to do it for you too?
Natsuki: It’s not fair if you’re the only one who gets special treatment, is it?
ATRI: Tsk, and there I thought you were too big a boy to want that kind of thing. Well, kneel down for me.
I duck down in front of her, and let her stick the toothbrush in.
Natsuki: Ahhhhhh…
ATRI: Brushy brushy! ♪ Brushy brushy! ♪
ATRI: There we go, all nice and clean. Gargle and spit like a good by now. ♪
I do exactly as Mommy says.
I wipe my chin on my sleeve, particular hiding my blushing face(at least she isn’t telling me off about that yet).
Natsuki: …When I’m with you, even just brushing my teeth in the morning makes my happy.
ATRI: Hehe, that’s just how high-performance my tooth-brushing is.
ATRI: So, let’s get ready for school!
She takes me by the hand and pulls me back into the cabin.
After we get dressed, we grab out bags and prepare to leave.
ATRI: Aaaand done.
ATRI marks off another day on the calendar, and heads out of the door onto the deck.
She hops up on the pier, ready to help me disembark.
Natsuki: …
I stop in my tracks and stare at the calendar.
ATRI: What are you doing? Come on, Natsuki-san!
Natsuki: Okay, okay, I’m coming.
I walk out of the cabin, with the first few spark of a resolution flickering in my chest.
Thanks to ATRI’s sleep-headeness, we arrive at school a little later than normal.
Most of the other students have already gathered in the classroom. Unusually, everyone is gathered around in a huddle, enthusiastically talking about something.
Ryuuji: They’re gotta do it this time. If it fails again, we’re toast. There’s no future for us.
Ririka: It’ll definitely work! They said so on the radio!
Ririka holds up a radio and waves it around enthusiastically.
She made that herself, with only a little advice from me. Most of it is entirely her own handiwork.
Minamo: I think it’s going to work too. Umm, not that I know much about rockets science!
Even Minamo is pumping her first with excitement. What on earth could get everyone this excited?
ATRI: Good morning!
Minamo: Oh, good morning, you two.
Natsuki: Hello there.
Ryuuji: Yo, Natsu. Did you hear the news last night?
Natsuki: No, what’s going on?
I was so busy enjoying my time in ATRI that worldly matters seemed to fall by the wayside.
Ririka: The rocket! They’re finally gonna try and launch it!
Ryuuji: They’ve finalized all the plans, and they’re gonna send it up the week after next.
Natsuki: Ah, that thing.
Minamo: You’ll probably be able to see the launch form here, Ririka.
Ririka: Yeah! Maybe. Kinda…?
Natsuki: It depends on the weather as to if you’d need binoculars or not, but you should be able to see something, at least.
The rocket is supposed to launch form a floating platform off the coast. Considering the planned trajectory, it should be visible from the school.
Catherine: I think we should have a special class that day, so we can all watch it.
Minamo: Oh, good morning, Miss Hanako!
Catherine: I told you not to call me that!
Natsuki: Is it really worth the effort? Even if it is visible, it’ll only be a twinkle in the sky.
I don’t want the smaller children to get their hopes up about what a spectacle it will be.
Catherine: I think it’s worth it. That’s everyone’s hope being sent to the stars, after all.
Catherine: I want these brats to have that twinkle burned into their eyes. It’ll be like a guiding light, showing them that this world’s still got a future.
Natsuki: …
Catherine: …What’s with that look?
Natsuki: I distinctly remember you moaning about wouldn’t do anything for the lives of the townspeople before.
Catherine: Well, it’s different now. I’m a teacher.
Wow. She really does love being a teacher, huh? I guess it was losing this lifeline that made her so self-destructive. And that’s also what led her here as my debt collector in the first place.
I try not to pry too much, but I know that she’s been through a lot too.
Everyone spends a while heatedly discussing what an impact they think the launch will have.
Everyone, that is, but ATRI. She watches from the sidelines, head tilted quizzically.
ATRI: Will this rocket do something to save the planet?
Natsuki: Well, not directly. But it might just be the first step, however tiny a step it might be.
ATRI: …
The rocket launch is merely a test, the first part of a plan to restart astronomical research.
Many decades ago, at the height of humanity’s prosperity, humans even walked on the moon. When the seas began to rise, a plan to build a base on its surface was already underway.
It was meant to be a staging post for exploration of other planets, and even humans spreading into space, but matters on earth suddenly became more pressing. Abandoned up in the stars, the project now seems like nothing but a faraway dream.
But maybe it will only stay that way if we don’t try to reach for that dream once more…
Natsuki: A zero percent chance of a future in space might become a one percent chance. That’s infinitely better.
ATRI: Ooh, that’s kind of right… I’m suddenly interested in this rocket too!
ATRI totters off to go and join in the conversation.
Natsuki: …
Ryuuji: What’s up, Natsu? You’re looking kinda down… Not one of those anti-rocket dudes, are you?
There’s a lot of opposition to the launch around.
A lot of people take exception to “Wasting” resources that could be given to the people that really need them on some long-short project.
It’s hard to argue with them sometimes when they say that if we were just a little less careless with the planet we already have, humanity would have had a fine home here.
To those people, a rocket like this is just another one of humanity’s follies, a great bomb of toxic fuel and flame waiting to cause to cause even more damage.
Natsuki: No, I don’t care one way or the other. I suppose if the launch succeeds, it really will give people some kind of hope.
To be honest, I don’t think one rocket will change anything. Yet I can’t bring myself to look down on such a plan.
Ryuuji: You still don’t look too happy about it, though.
Natsuki: …My father is probably involved with the program.
Ryuuji: What!?
The lively classroom suddenly falls deadly silent.
All eyes turn to me.
Natsuki: Ma father is a rocket engineer. I didn’t mention that, did I?
The classroom explodes into a commotion once again, even more raucous than before.
Yoko: Woah! That’s totally amazing!
Ririka: Ooh, teach me all about rockets!
Catherine: jeez, you never stop with the surprises, do you?
Minamo: But, your father, didn’t he…?
Ryuuji: The guy just up and left you, right?
Natsuki: Well, at the minute it’s more like I’m not even trying to hunt him down. I’m just going to let him do his thing…
Who am I to stop him? If he really can save the world, maybe that will make everyone happy…
After school, we headed out to sea for a salvage job.
We expected it to take a few days, but we  found what we need surprising expediently. So here I am, delivering what we’ve pulled up to the client.
The item in question is a family photo album.
Most of its contents are discolored or damaged, but the album is be made out of high-quality leather, so some photographs are completely unscathed.
The client is so happy that she pays us double what we’d agreed.
Ryuuji: Right, I’m gonna take Ririka back to the school. See ya, you guys.
Ririka: Bye bye!
Natsuki: Be careful on the way back, okay?
ATRI: Goodbye!
ATRI: So, should we go home too?
Natsuki: There’s somewhere I want to stop by one the way back.
ATRI: On, where?
Natsuki: I can go on my own, so you can head back ahead of me.
ATRI: Huh… Okay, well, I’ll go and buy groceries for dinner, then.
Natsuki: Great.
We go our separate ways.
After we’ve run our respective errands, we meet up again. We walk along the same coastal road we always do, hand in hand.
ATRI: What did you buy?
Natsuki: Well, umm… That’s a secret.
I hold the paper bag I’m carrying close to me, away from her prying eyes.
ATRI doesn’t try to push me any further. She turns back to look at the market district we’ve just left.
ATRI: The town is so dark…
She mumbles under her breath.
ATRI: It looks almost dead…
Natsuki: What’s with you, all of a sudden?
ATRI: If all the people here disappeared, it would be like permanent night…
Natsuki: I suppose so…
ATRI: It might seem strange for me to say this as a robot, but light really is essential for humans to live, isn’t it?
ARTI gazes up into the night sky.
The darkness of the land is only matched by the beauty of the sparkling stars above. Once, when humanity was prosperous, those little lights were hidden by the glow of the cities below.
ATRI: If the rocket launch succeeds, everything will definitely get much brighter. Hehe, I can’t wait. ♪
In much the same way that she sees my prosthetic as a rival, she seems to feel some kind of affinity with the rocket…
ATRI: Natsuki-san, when does the rocket launch?
Natsuki: In sixteen days.
ATRI starts counting on her fingers.
ATRI: …Hmm, then it’ll be just in time.
She mutters quietly to herself.
Natsuki: ATRI… Here, take this.
I hold out the paper bag I just bought toward her.
I hold out the bag I’d just said was a secret in front of her. She gives me a quizzical look.
ATRI: Can I open it?
Natsuki: Go ahead.
ATRI peeks inside, and her eyes widen.
Natsuki: There you go. There’s the sandals that you wanted.
ATRI: Tsk, I told you that I didn’t need them…
Natsuki: I promised that I’d buy them when I had enough money saved up, didn’t I? We made a pretty penny earlier, so it seemed like the right time.
ATRI: Tsk…
ATRI: Looks dissatisfied.
It’s unsurprising, given how obviously I’m twisting my words. I’d obviously initially meant my promise in the sense that I’d buy them once I had a stable income and plenty of spare cash.
Yet here I am, spending a chunk of our takings on them.
Natsuki: I just made the decision that I’d make you happy. I’d do anything to see you smile.
Natsuki: You’ve saved my life, after all.
ATRI: Natsuki-san…
ATRI stares at me uneasily.
I can almost see the conflicting feeling of happiness and the desire to tell me off fighting in her brain.
ATRI: …Do you remember what you said that time?
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: You said that you had to save the world…
Natsuki: Yeah…
I said that the very first time I met her as a young boy.
ATRI: Don’t you have to go back to The Academy eventually? It almost seems like you’ve forgotten about the rest of the world lately.
I did tell her, long ago on that cliff, that I had gone to The Academy to save the world.
But now, I’m simply looking out at the horizon as it blurs into the inky blackness of the night with a warm feeling in my chest.
Natsuki: I don’t feel like I have to do that any more.
Natsuki: My first days back in this town were terrible, for sure, but that all changed when I salvaged you.
Natsuki: Like I said, you saved my life.
Natsuki: I don’t feel like I have to be the one to save the world now.
I’ve already been saved, after all.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: I’m going to save you too, ATRI. I’m looking for a way to do that right now.
Natsuki: And I’ll definitely find it, trust me.
I gaze deep into those ruby-red eyes.
Natsuki: I’m going to make you happy, ATRI.
ATRI: …
For a moment, she looks at me nonplussed, but her expression suddenly breaks into a wide smile.
ATRI: Thank you! I’m already so happy!
I’m relieved to see her react so happily. She really does understand just how strongly I feel for her.
Natsuki: So, try them on.
ATRI: Okay!
She slips off her beaten-up loafers, and puts on the shiny new sandals.
ATRI: Ohhh… They’re really hard to walk in.
Perhaps I should have expected that the first thing she would be concerned with is their utility and not their appearance.
Natsuki: Most fashionable shoes are. They really suit you, though.
ATRI: They do make me a little taller, don’t they? I’m ever so slightly closer to your face now.
ATRI gazes innocently up at me.
Our eyes meet, closer than they’ve ever felt before.
I feel like I’m sinking into those ruby-red pools…
ATRI: Natsuki-san?
OPTION
Stare into her eyes                        Kiss her
Natsuki: …                               I hold her close. I feel my lips being drawn
Inexorably to hers as if by some
I’m too bewitched by their brilliance to even  supernatural force.
move.
Natsuki: (They’re so beautiful…)             ATRI: Mmn…!?
I wonder how incredible it would feel to kiss  She blink in confusion.
her like this…                             She tries to push away, but I press her firmly
But good sense prevails in my mind to put   against me.
the brakes on that idea.                   As I do, she finally seems to realize what is
happening.
Natsuki: (We don’t have to rush things. We  She closes her eyes, and press her lips back
can just take it slow, and let it happen       against mine.
naturally.)
ATRI: Mwah!                             ATRI: Mmmn…
Natsuki: Hngh!?
…
ATRI presses her lips lightly to mine,        The two of us stand silent in each other’s
standing on her tiptoes.                   embrace.
The deep navy waters lap around out feet.
Natsuki: A-ATRI, did you just…?             Time flows around our soundless kiss like the
ATRI: Yes, I kissed you. When a pair of lovers  seas themselves.
look into each other’s eyes, it’s natural for   When our lips finally become unlocked, ATRI
them to then kiss.                        stares up at me with those ruby-red eyes.
Natsuki: That’s not necessarily-
ATRI: Should I not have?                   ATRI: So that was a kiss…?
Natsuki: Oh, no… I’m really happy you did.   Natsuki: It sure seemed like it…
ATRI: Ahh, good. I was afraid I’d made a
mistake then.                             My entire mind is blank.
ATRI: So, let’s get going home.              We stand staring silently into each other’s
Natsuki: Yeah…                           eyes. I’m desperately trying to process what
I’ve just done.
ATRI takes me by the hand, and leads me
still dumbstruck along the road.             Natsuki: (I never thought I could be the kind
of person to act on impulse like this…)
Natsuki: Phew…
I just kissed her on pure instinct.
When we get back, I take a shower to cool
my head.                                 Natsuki: (It doesn’t seem like she disliked it,
though.)
Far from it, it seems like she’d let me do it
for as long as I wanted.
My heart is pounding in my chest.
My whole body feels like it’s trembling with
Love for her.
Natsuki: ATRI, one more… Mmn!
This time it’s ATRI pressing her lips against
mine.
ATRI: Mmn, mwah…
Our lips entangle with a surprising sense of
passion.
It’s awkward, and faltering, but filled with
Hunger.
ATRI: Mmnph, hahh…
ATRI: So that’s a kiss… I definitely hadn’t
Learned enough about that yet.
Natsuki: I supposed we’ll just have to learn
about it together form now on…
ATRI: …O-Okay.
We take a bashful step away from each
other, and join hands as if nothing had
happened.
We continue on our way home without
Exchanging a single word.
Natsuki: I did it… I actually went and did it!
As soon as I get back, I rush into the shower
to be alone. Here, I can finally let out the
words that have been welling up inside me
for the whole walk home.
I pump my fists in the air, shouting ‘Yes!’
over again.
Natsuki: Phew…
When I’ve calmed down a little, I dry off and
try to quell the growing sense of
embarrassment over how I’ve just spent my
shower.
This no being the largest of ships, I’m pretty
sure she must have heard my celebrations.
Recently, our evening routine has usually involved ATRI writing her logs while I wash myself.
When I come out of the bathroom, as expected she’s sitting there with her notebook.
Natsuki: (Hmm, seems like she’s not finished.)
I make my way over to sit on the bed and take off my leg, being careful to avoid any accusation of peeking on her. Something’s off, though…
Her hand isn’t moving.
No part of her is, in fact.
Natsuki: ATRI?
…
She doesn’t respond.
Natsuki: Is she sleep? I guess even robots fall asleep if they’re tired.
Natsuki: …
Natsuki: ATRI? Come on, sleepyhead…
I whisper into her ear, but she doesn’t show any sign of waking up.
…
Natsuki: …No, no no. Calm yourself, Natsuki. Even if, as her master, you have every right to read her logs, she did say…
I sit back down on the bed.
I lie back, and let the noise of the radio fill my ears.
Instead of the usual music programme, it’s playing a talk show.
Radio DJ: Our next postcard comes in from ‘Choppy!’
Radio DJ: She writes, ‘After two years, I finally kissed my boyfriend yesterday.’ At last! Nice goin’, hun.
Radio: I’ve always heard the first kiss tastes like lemon, but mine… It tasted of garlic! He’d been to an Italian restaurant just before he came to meet me!
Radio DJ: Hoo boy, that’s a real hum-dinger! I’m guessin’ he though he wasn’t gonna get any that night!
The show goes on with the DJ pleading the boyfriend’s case.
Natsuki: …
ATRI must have written about the kiss in her logs.
Natsuki: She writes every single little thing that’s happened to her in there, so something as big as that…
I wonder what she wrote?
I wonder how she felt about it…
I need to read it.
She won’t know…
I creep up to her.
I peer over her shoulder, and scan the open page of the notebook.
I see those four little letters, K-I-S-S.
Natsuki: (There! She has written about it!)
Now that I’ve seen it, I can’t stop here. Mentally apologizing to her in advance, I start to read the log.
I kissed Natsuki-san. Kiss, definition: A show of affection, often between human lovers, performed by pressing together both party’s lips. I am unable to ascertain the meaning of this action.
I was unsure of how to respond, but I approximated a reaction based on the materials loaned to me by Minamo. Natsuki-san did not appear to find this reaction unnaturalConclusion:
I selected the appropriate reaction.
Natsuki: …Huh?
My blood runs cold.
Natsuki: What… What is this?
I take the notebook out of her hands, and flick through the pages.
All of those little moments, the sweet and innocent times we spent together, every single thing is written here… Written in words that make my heart freeze.
I read on. I have to.
On the way to school, he told me that he ‘loved’ me. I replied that I ‘loved’ him too.
However, I was able to determine from Catherine’s class that the meaning of ‘love’ that I had transmitted to him contrary to that intended by Natsuki-san. Conclusion: Error in evaluation.
My reply had not been in line with Natsuki-san’s expectations.
Action: In accordance with newly learned data, I have recorded in my internal database that Natsuki-san’s definition of love with respect to me is one of romantic love
New evaluation: Natsuki-san desired to form a romantic bond with me. Further simulation was required. Action: In order to fulfill this desire, I employed a falsehood.
Content: /”…Even after that, I want to stay with you.
“Simulations indicated this would be the desired response.
Evaluation: Natsuki-san did not appear to find this response unnatural. Reaction correlated to expected response based on emotional simulation based on learned data.
Conclusion: Natsuki-san was satisfied.
My hands are shaking.
The walls seem to twist and warp around me.
Natsuki: It was all fake…
The log falls to the floor.
The heavy thud resounds in the silence.
ATRI: …
ATRI slowly raises her head to look at me.
ATRI: Hmm… Natsuki-san?
She watches me with bleary eyes.
ATRI: Hehehe… You’ll hug me to sleep again tonight, won’t you? We’re lovers now, after all.
She sleepily paws at me, trying to wrap her arms around my waist.
I swat her hand away.
ATRI: Natsuki-san?
She freezes up, an expression of bewilderment etched on her face.
Until now, I would have looked at her pausing like this and just assumed she was confused.
I know the truth now. Faced with an unrecognized emotional pattern, she’s running emotional simulations and working out the best option to take.
ATRI: …
She notices the notebook.
ATRI: Hey! Have you been reading my logs!?
ATRI: Tsk, honestly, I told you that’s not allowed! It’s like you want to break my heart. In accordance with the Robot Protection Statute, it looks like I’m gonna have to give you some more pugilistic punishment-
Natsuki: That’s enough. Stop that.
ATRI: Stop what?
Natsuki: Stop pretending you have any kind of heart!
ATRI: …
A robot cannot disobey a human.
In an instant, her cute expression sinks into a blank void, like an emotionless mask.
That’s her response.
Her response to my order, and her confirmation of what I said. If she had real emotions, she would have continued to argue with me as she always does, lively and lovely.
But there is no heart in ATRI.
Natsuki: You feel nothing at all, don’t you?
ATRI: I am not equipped with the prerequisite functionality to experience emotion.
Natsuki: …It was all an act, wasn’t it?
ATRI: I am unable to discern whether that is an appropriate label for my actions, but I estimate that what you are feeling is correct.
ATRI: I observe humans, learn from them, use my learned knowledge to perform simulations, and output action accordingly.
Natsuki: Like… Walking hand in hand with me, smiling happily?
ATRI: Affirmative.
Natsuki: Celebrating with everyone when we finished the generator?
ATRI: Affirmative.
Natsuki: Feeling, jealousy?
ATRI: Affirmative.
My throat is dry. My voice breaks.
Natsuki: Even…
Please, no…
Natsuki: That smile?
ATRI: Affirmative!
She beams at me with that same exact smile she always does, the smile that soothes my soul.
ATRI: You taught me to smile like that, after all.
Natsuki: No…
ATRI: My database records that feelings are said to come from the heart. As I do not have a heart, I am incapable of experiencing feelings.
Natsuki: So… It was all just you repeating what you’d learned?
Natsuki: That’s… amazing. I was completely fooled.
ATRI: Well, that’s just how high-performance I am!
Natsuki: Stop! Don’t use those expressions on me ever again. That’s an order.
ATRI: Understood.
Her face reverts to absolute blankness again, as if a smile had never even once come across it.
I clutch at my shirt so hard it might just rip.
Natsuki: Were you… happy when you were with me?
ATRI: Affirmative.
If I could rip into my chest and crush my raw heart…
Natsuki: Tell the truth!
ATRI: Based on an objective analysis of the situation, I can evaluate that I would have been happy. However, as I do not possess emotions, I did not feel this.
Natsuki: Why did you hide your true self from me? Did you… Did you just pity me that much?
ATRI: It was self-preservation.
ATRI: If you had known that I do not posses emotions, I would have have been sold and scrapped.
Natsuki: What? That’s not what would have happened…
ATRI: …
Natsuki: Don’t you remember what I said to you earlier?
I told her that I’d make her happy.
At that moment, she’d paused for just a moment before she smiled at me.
Now I know that that was just her calculating the appropriate response.
Natsuki: You told me that you were already happy…
ATRI: I recall that.
Natsuki: …Was that also a lie?
ATRI: …
She remains silent for a moment, before she finally speaks.
ATRI: It was not a lie. As I cannot feel emotions, it was the most appropriate answer available.
Natsuki: It was…?
ATRI is a robot, built to serve humans. The answer that makes her master the most satisfied must be the best answer for her.
I almost feel touched. She’s been working so hard to read my emotions, and select the response that would make me the happiest.
But all of that was just so she wouldn’t be scrapped…
I take the log from her, and flick through its many scribbled pages.
ATRI offers no resistance.
School. The cooking club. The days spent together with me. Every page is filled with detailed recordings of the past weeks, cold and dispassionate.
There is not trace of the lively, clumsy girl I saw with my own eyes.
ATRI: May I ask a question?
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: You made a promise to me once.
Natsuki: A promise?
ATRI: To save the world.
ATRI: Since rejoining you, it appears as if you have forgotten this objective.
Natsuki: I told you, I’m not planning to do that any more.
ATRI: …
Something approaching sadness fleetingly crosses that blank mask.
As if a heartless robot could feel such a thing. She mush think that’s what I want to see from her in this moment.
ATRI: So you won’t save the world?
Natsuki: …
I see… So that’s why she froze up earlier when I told her that I would make her happy.
Natsuki: I’m happy as I am now. You saved me.
Natsuki: And like I said, I’m going to save you too.
ATRI: …
ATRI falls silent. I have the feeling it’s for my sake.
After all… I know there’s still something she’s hiding.
Natsuki: You’ve been having a lot of trouble waking up lately, haven’t you?
ATRI: Affirmative. I’m just low-voltage…
Natsuki: We both know that’s not the reason. Tell the truth.
ATRI: Soon, I will cease operation.
Humanoids have a limited lifespan.
Just like for humans, death is unavoidable.
And for ATRI, that day is approaching. ATRI has been struggling to wake up because her body is starting to break down.
The way that her eyes went dull this morning is a common sign that a Humanoid is close to complete systematic shutdown.
Even before then, I had a suspicion that it was coming. Her eyes just confirmed it.
I glance over at the calendar.
Natsuki: You said that you’d stay with me even after the time came… You just said that to make me happy, didn’t you?
She nods.
ATRI: It was not my true intention, but if it is what you wish, that is what I will do.
For a Humanoid, death means the cessation of their mental faculties.
Their brains can’t be refurbished, and their memories can’t be transferred to another storage system.
You may wonder why a robot needs to die. The answer is that is was simply an ethical issue.
People would have feared and hated a being that looks like a human but is, for all intents and purposes, immortal.
Humanity may well have even lost its position as the dominant special on the planet.
As a result, it was made a legal obligation that all humanoids were programmed to have a limited lifespan-designed obsolescence.
It would be wasteful to simply scrap their bodies, though.
So rather than having their bodies degrade and die, it was decided that their minds would die instead.
If their memories were entirely erased, their bodies could be reused. They’d be like an entirely different person.
So what ATRI is telling me, essentially, is that she’s willing to stay with me, but not as herself—she would have the same body, but an entirely different mind.
ATRI: My intention was for you to sell my body, and buy an appropriately high-performance leg to replaced me.
ATRI: I estimated that that will provide you the optimum amount of happiness.
Natsuki: Hey, why don’t I just get the new “you” to be my leg? It’s not a tough job.
I chuckle darkly.
ATRI: The new me would not posses the prerequisite learned experience to carry out that duty, or the capability of learning such a thing.
ATRI seems aware that her A.I. is somehow unusual…
ATRI: You have also made a promise to Catherine. You arranged to sell me and split the money with her.
Natsuki: True…
It feels like made that promise years ago now.
The days since then that I’ve spent with ATRI have had such an effect on me.
Natsuki: There’s one more thing I need to know. When you told me you loved me… Was that just to make me happy too?
She nods.
Natsuki: If you didn’t feel the need to please me, would you still “love” me?
ATRI: …
She pauses. When she speaks, her voice is loud and clear.
ATRI: Currently, I hate you.
I don’t know why, but I don’t even cry.
After I lost my mother and my leg in that crash, I was sent to rest at my mother’s old home.
They said I should go somewhere quiet and peaceful to rest.
It was a beautiful coastal town, where a gentle sea breeze always blew.
The endless, changeless days soothed me as I coped with the shock of loss.
But though I did not show it on the surface, I kept a great well of despair built up deep inside of me.
Even as I struggled with the pain and the sadness, my father did not come to see me even once.
I realized her had abandoned me, and knowing this, I chose to die.
I remember the view from that clifftop was breathtaking.
Just an endless horizon.
My wheelchair creaks as I wheel it up the unpaved path.
The cliff isn’t high enough to kill anybody who falls from it on impact.
But below it is nothing but deep blue sea. If I fall from here in my wheelchair, no one can save me.
I want this to be the last thing I see before I die.
My mother always used to take me here when we went for walks. It’s a place that’s so full of happy memories for me.
Natsuki: …Huh?
There’s already someone standing on the precipice.
Her sliver still hair flutters in the wind, glowing gold in the soft light of the sunset.
She’s beautiful.
She seems to be four or five years older than I am. She’s taller than me, yet somehow her face seems so innocent compared to mine.
She’s standing right on the edge.
A deep sadness shades the light in her eyes.
She starts to step forward. Instinctively, I call out to her.
Natsuki: Wait!
Girl: …Oh?
She turns and stares down at me before staring to speak, a strange lack of despair in her voice.
Girl: Would you be willing to help me? I’d like you to push me. I am unable to jump on my own.
Natsuki: No way… I don’t want to kill you. I’d be arrested for murder, or at least assisting your suicide.
Natsuki: If you don’t even have the courage to jump, you shouldn’t try to kill yourself.
Girl: It’s not a matter of courage…
Natsuki: If you’re not prepared to jump, that means you must have something you still want to do in this world. In that case, you should deal with that before you kill yourself.
Even as an elementary school child, I had no compunctions about talking down to an older girl like that.
Girl: That assertion does appear to possess some validity. But what do I want to do?
Natsuki: Well, don’t ask me.
Natsuki: Anyway, you’re in my way. This is my cliff.
Girl: Oh… I did not realize this was private land.
She moves out of the way. I try to wheel myself to the edge, but I’m completely stuck in the mud.
Girl: …
The girl silently moves behind me, and starts to push.
Girl: Is here acceptable?
Natsuki: …Yeah, great.
She leaves me in exactly the position she was in.
I feel even more pitiful knowing that I had to have someone’s help simply to die.
Natsuki: I’m fine now, so can you away?
Girl: …
She doesn’t leave. She came here for some reason too, of course…
Natsuki: Didn’t you hear me? Go away.
Girl: What are you going to do here?
Natsuki: What does it matter to you?
Girl: If you are intending to end your life, I am duty-bound to prevent you.
Natsuki: Huh? What do you mean?
Girl: I have been ordered to do so.
If she really, desperately wanted to stop me, I’d understand. But the way she’s talking about it, as a “duty,” is strange and slightly uncanny. Didn’t she just try to kill herself?
Girl: Do you have nothing left in this world?
Natsuki: …
Girl: If there is still something you have left to do, I posit that you should deal with that before dying.
Girl: Do you have anything of that kind that you can think of?
Natsuki: I… I…
Natsuki: Ahh… *sniffle*, hic!
Girl: …
The girl looks at me with concern as I suddenly start to cry.
I start to sob and moan, without so much as trying to wipe away my tears.
Natsuki: My dad is too busy saving the world to even see me…
Natsuki: It’s a really, really important job, I know… I know humanity doesn’t have much time left…
Natsuki: The earth is more important than me…
Girl: Oh…
Natsuki: I… Waaahhhhh!!!
Any pretense I had of acting older than my tender years disappears as I burst into floods of tears. In an instant, I am a child again.
The girl simply looks at me, unsure of what to do.
She tries to calm me down, stretching out a hand in some kind of awkward gesture.
Finally, she grabs me in frustration.
She pulls me into an embrace.
Girl: There there, good boy… It’s all going to be okay…
It feels so strange…
Almost like this isn’t the first time she’s held me like this…
My wailing grows even louder and less restrained.
The more I cry, the more my heart fills with worlds I want to say.
I wail and sob as I pour my heart out. I have no idea what pain spilled from my mouth, but I’m sure it was full of love for my mother, pleas for my father, and hate for my grandmother.
Eventually, I have only one thing left to say.
Natsuki: I’m going to go to school, and study.
Girl: School?
Natsuki: I’m going to go to that big place, Then Academy, and I’m going to study so much!
Girl: Why?
Natsuki: I have to save the world!
Natsuki: If I don’t, well… I’ll never be saved myself. I’m so pitiful…
My father has abandoned me.
If he doesn’t save the world, I won’t be saved either.
That’s why he won’t come to see me.
I have to be something other than just pitiful.
I should be the one to save the world. If I do that, I’ll save myself too.
The girl suddenly says something very strange.
Girl: Does the world include me?
It’s almost like she doesn’t believe she deserves to be part of the world.
Like she shouldn’t exist.
Well, she did come here planning to throw herself from the cliff.
She must be suffering the same way I am, or maybe even worse.
I stare at her.
Into those eyes, the color of blood.
Somewhere in their crimson depths, I can sense a profound well of sadness.
She wants to be saved. That’s what kept her from jumping.
Natsuki: How can I save you?
Girl: …Teach me what “happiness” means.
Girl: If I can learn to be happy, my master can be saved.
Natsuki: So I just have to make you smile? Hmm… Can you try smiling, just to see what it looks like?
Girl: Hm…?
Natsuki: When people are happy, they smile, right? Maybe it works in reverse. If you smile, you’ll become happy.
Girl: …
Natsuki: Like this.
I force a smile.
Girl: …
In that moment, a feeling that I’ve never experience wells up in my chest.
An overwhelming elation, a cry of the heart telling me to live on.
For the first time, I discovered what it feels like to fall in love.
It was like a single bright ray of light shining through the darkness…
Soon, the sunrise comes.
Natsuki: …It’s already morning?
People always say that I have the eyes of a killer, but today I get the feeling that I look more like a ghost.
I groan a crackly death rattle. My throat is so dry that I feel like a corpse.
I have been poring sleeplessly through my grandmother’s research all night.
There was no print trying to sleep.
“Currently, I hate you.”
Natsuki: …What’s wrong with just wanting a peaceful life?
It’s not like I’ve given up on trying to save ATRI.
After all, my night of research has led me to one particularly important clue.
I found a file among the piles of research notes with a single word on its cover: “Eden.”
Natsuki: “Concept for humankind migrating to floating cities”… ”Plan for self-sustaining seastead”… “Prototype construction”…
A “seastead” is an artificial floating island, on which human settlements are built.
In a manner of speaking, my ship is my own seastead. It has the benefit of being able to adapt to rising and falling sea levels.
These plans, however, are for something much, much larger than this boat. These seems to detail a floating island that could carry an entire town.
These kind of projects are pretty common, and some examples of seasteads have already been built.
My grandmother’s plan has one big difference, however: Self-sustainability. The seastead would contain everything necessary to support a full community without needing to important supplies.
It would be an artificial island on a scale previously unheard of, equipped with systems to manufacture food and water and recycle waste.
Like the Garden of Eden, it would be an entirely new starting point for humanity.
I never knew my grandmother was involved with such an important project.
But that’s not the thing I’m surprised about the most.
Natsuki: I recognize this island…
The photographs tracking the construction of the first prototype instantly take me back to that time…
…The time that we encountered the phantom island in the mist.
Natsuki: Eden was calling to ATRI…
That can’t have been a coincidence, and neither was it something magical. ATRI and the island were communicating through some kind of data transfer.
Natsuki: That’s what I’m supposed to do, isn’t it, Grandmother? I have to take ATRI to that place.
There, she might be able to complete her last order. She’ll be saved.
Natsuki: ATRI…
…
ATRI is sleeping alone in the bed.
Just like the other day, she isn’t making a sound. She isn’t breathing. It’s like she’s an empty, soundless husk.
Natsuki: ATRI… Wake up, ATRI.
I uneasily reach over to jostle her.
ATRI: Mmn… Zzzzz…
She lets out a happy little snooze.
Natsuki: Phew…
Relief wells in my chest.
ATRI: Mmmn… You pervert, Natsuki-san… That’s against the Robot Protection Statute… Three months, no dinner…
Her adorable mumbling soothes me ever so slightly.
Natsuki: I just can’t believe that you don’t have a heart…
I stroke her hair, gazing at that angelic face.
Natsuki: You do have one, I’m sure. I still believe…
Or maybe I just want to believe.
People don’t look for the truth, they merely look for what they want to see.
Even know, I’m sure I’m just searching her expressionless face for whatever I want to find.
Natsuki: You were trying to kill yourself back then…
That was our first meeting.
Stricken with a trauma that no child should have to deal with, I had decided to die.
But ATRI was already there when I arrived.
I didn’t have the slightest inking that she was a Humanoid. What kind of robot tries to kill itself?
That was why she asked me to push her. At the time, I just thought she didn’t have no courage.
Natsuki: What on earth happened to you, ATRI?
What could make a Humanoid want to commit suicide?
Her reasons have likely been long forgotten along with many of her other memories, but there’s one thing I can say for sure.
Natsuki: Back then, you must felt the same deep despair I did…
How could she feel such an emotion without a heart?
Natsuki: …
Would it be worth having a heart, if all you could feel was misery?
ATRI: …Teach me what “happens” means.
Natsuki: Does being with me not make you happy?
When I direct the question to the sleeping ATRI, she screws up her face in discomfort.
ATRI: Uuurrrghh…
ATRI: …Oh? Natsuki-san?
She blinks sleepily.
ATRI: Good morning…
Natsuki: ATRI, smile for me.
ATRI: Okaaay… Hehe!
She gives me a wide, slobbery smile.
I wipe off the spittle with my sleeve.
Natsuki: Is that what I looked like when I smiled for you back then?
ATRI: Yeppp… Itsh my… best eshtimation, mmn…
She replies in a half-yawn.
ATRI: Here, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Thanks.
I take her hand and let her pull me up onto the pier. She’s been completely expressionless all morning.
It’s natural, seeing as I ordered her to do so.
I’ve told her not to use fake emotions when she’s alone with me, but to keep up appearance around everyone else.
So far, she has obeyed that perfectly.
ATRI: Umm… I have a question.
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: Are we still officially a couple?
Given that she has no heart, naturally her romantic feelings for me were nothing but an act too.
Natsuki: I’m fine with whatever, if that’s what you want.
My feeling haven’t changed.
ATRI: I have no opposition to it. I will do whatever I can in your service, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Well, thanks.
Although her expression is completely blank, we’re still holding hands as we always do. ATRI is still my “leg,” no matter what the situation is between us.
ATRI: Here, Natsuki-san.
ATRI opens up the post box on the pier, and hands me a letter.
It’s for me.
Natsuki: Who could be sending me letters?
I look at the sender, and freeze up.
ATRI: What’s wrong?
Natsuki: It’s nothing. Let’s go.
I stuff the letter into my bag, and walk down the pier hand in hand with ATRI.
Catherine: Looking forward to summer vacation? I bet you are. Well, before that, we’re having end-of-term exams.
Everyone cries out in despair.
It’s the sound of a class that’s swelled to almost thirty students having their hearts broken.
Ryuuji: Aww man, tests are so lame!
Yoko: I know, right!
Minamo: I’m kind of looking forward to them…
Yoko: What the hell? You’re always said you hate them, though! Backstabber!
Minamo: Well, it just makes it seem like this is a proper school, right?
Catherine: Exactly. We’re not just playing around here, this is an actual school.
Catherine: And a school needs to have tests. That’s why I’m going to have you all take the National Standard Assessment.
The N.S.A. is standardized test that the Ministry of Education has put in place.
It’s intended to measure the average test scores across regions, and improve the general level of education across the country.
Natsuki: Sounds good to me. If we can produce some good scores, it might help to keep this school running.
Catherine: Of course, I’m not going to be going easy on you all. This is going to be a proper challenge for you.
Ryuuji: Seriously? Us older kids don’t even take proper classes…
Ririka: Even if you did, you’d probably get real bad scores anyway, Ryuu-chan.
Ryuuji: I don’t wanna hear that from someone just out of diapers…
Minamo: ATRI-chan, do you think you’re ready to take tests?
ATRI: Hmm, tests… In order words, a test of my processing capacity. My pride as a robot is on the line!
ATRI: I’ll have to give this my all!
Ririka: Ooh, ATRI’s really fired up! I’m gonna have to do my best too!
Catherine is likely doing this with half an eye on getting Ririka into The Academy. Trying to get good grades might push her to study even more.
Natsuki: (I’m looking forward to seeing what ATRI can do too…)
I suppose that seeing a gifted student get good marks is one of the appeals of being a teacher.
Catherine: So, from today we’re going to be focusing on prepping for exams. I expect you all to try your hardest, okay?
Ryuuji: So we’ve gotta get through tests in order to enjoy summer break? Well, guess we’re gonna have to put in the work, then.
Minamo: Yeah, let’s give it our all!
As much as nobody really wants to have to do tests, everyone seems pretty happy to be doing something typically student-ey.
Catherine: You’re taking the N.S.A. too, you hear? You’d better help pull up our average.
Natsuki: Well, of course. I’m technically a student here, after all.
The first lesson of exam prep soon comes to a close.
I head up alone to the roof.
I’m carrying with me the envelope I received this morning.
The sender is marked as Ikaruga Soji-my father.
The letter inside, the first communication I’ve had with him in years, says two things. The first is simply a short, nonchalant declaration.
“I’ve made arrangements for you to go back to The Academy. I’ll do something about the tuition fees.”
The other is a simple request.
“Be watching on August 31st.”
That’s the day of the rocket launch…
I stare off into the sky.
An enormous cumulonimbus hangs over the horizon, against a background of brilliant blue.
I try to picture what it would look like with the vapor trail of a rocket streaking across it.
Natsuki: …
Yet I cannot do it.
I wonder when I lost the ability to imagine a rocket shooting off into the future like that…
Heading back in class, I find the other students have split off into years groups and pushed their desks together. They’re working on mock test questions, as part of Catherine’s plan to get us ready.
ATRI scuttles busily from table to table.
ATRI: Ah, you can solve this one with this equation. Do you think you can do that?
Yoko: Oooh, I get it now! You’re super-smart, ATRIcchi!
ATRI: Heh, I am a high-performance robot, after all!
ATRI’s grades have risen to become the best among all of the students. She’s been helping out the other students while I’ve been out of the classroom.
Ririka: Ah, he’s back! Hey, come teach me this bit-
Minamo: Natsu-kun, there’s a part I don’t understand…
Ryuuji: Heh, where the hell did you get to? Not slacking off, are you? I suppose tests like these are easy-peasy for you.
Natsuki: Maybe a little.
Waving everyone away, I take my seat.
Ryuuji: What’s up with you? You don’t look great, dude…
Ryuuji: Something on your mind?
Natsuki: I got a letter from my father.
Ryuuji: You dad? The rocket guy?
Natsuki: He says he’s made arrangements for me to go back to The Academy.
The room falls silent.
Everyone glances around uneasily.
Ririka: Are… Are you going away?
Tooru: Are you really gonna go back?
Miyo: No way…
As everyone else flinches, unsure of how to react, Ryuuji alone shouts out joyfully.
Ryuuji: Nice one! You’re wasted on a place like this, man!
Minamo: Y-Yeah! Congratulations, Natsu-kun.
Everyone joins in the congratulations.
Natsuki: Nothing’s been decided yet, I just got the letter.
ATRI: That would be so, so wonderful! You’ve got to go, Natsuki-san!
ATRI: You’re going to save the world, aren’t you?
Natsuki: Yeah…
Just as I ordered her to, she acts completely normal around everyone else. It’s hard for me to respond to her fake feelings the way I used to, though.
Minamo: It’ll be really lonely here without you.
Ririka: Yeah… We’ll write you letters, okay!?
Ryuuji: …
Ryuuji: Have whatever you like, it’s on me.
After school, Ryuuji takes me into the market to the candy store he regularly hangs out at.
We sit on the bench, sipping on room-temperature cola.
Ryuuji: Aww man, I wish we had some proper cold drinks around here!
When it’s this lukewarm, the sweetness of the cola sticks unpleasantly in your throat.
After a couple of gulps, Ryuuji starts up a conversation.
Ryuuji: That’s good news, isn’t it? Guess your dad hasn’t abandoned you after all.
Natsuki: …I wonder about that.
Natsuki: He’s obviously giving his all to that rocket launch. I hear they’ve been struggling for cash thanks to all the opposition, and he’s even been putting his salary back into the project.
Ryuuji: But he said he’d fine some way to pay your tuition fees, didn’t he?
I was surprised to hear that, but maybe now that the launch has been confirmed their costs have gone somehow.
Natsuki: I suppose he’s trying to make up for never doing anything else father-like in his life.
Natsuki: He just wants to assuage his guilt…
As much as I understand that, I no longer have the energy to put up any direct resistance.
Ryuuji: Well, that just shows how strongly he feels about you, doesn’t it? The man’s not gonna feel guilty towards some one he doesn’t care about.
Natsuki: …
He might be right. As much as I don’t want to admit it, I’ve started to understand just a little about how my father must feel.
He’s just trying to do exactly what I said I had to…
Natsuki: I have to save the world.
Natsuki: If I can’t save the world, how can I be saved?
He suddenly lost his wife, and his son was gravely injured.
When assailed with such an unreasonable quick of fate, a person has to find a way keep on going, lest they completely fall apart.
Maybe my father feels he needs to save the world in order to keep from breaking down, even if it means discarding his family.
If he can’t, it would be a betrayal of his lost wife.
Natsuki: …I don’t want to go back to The Academy.
Ryuuji: Natsu, dude…
Natsuki: I’m not saying that just because my father is making me. I just want to stay here, with you, and Minamo, and everyone.
Ryuuji: Natsu…
Natsuki: This is, wel… It’s the first time I’ve felt like I could talk to someone like this.
Natsuki: It’s the first time I’ve ever enjoyed school… The first time I’ve ever let myself be supported by other people, and support them back.
Ryuuji: And let them save your bacon from time to time, heh.
He grins, and reaches out to rustle my hair.
Ryuuji: You’re a real cutie, Natsu.
Natsuki: H-Hey, stop that.
As embarrassing as I find the way he fools arounds with me, I can’t help but smile back.
I’m finally used to life here in this town.
I’m not going to throw away the happiness I’ve found here to go back to The Academy.
Ryuuji: Well, I’m sorry for getting on your case about it. If that’s how you feel, I understand.
Ryuuji doesn’t say it, but I can tell he really was worried that I was just revolting against my father’s wishes.
Ryuuji: I’m glad that you wanna stick around, though. I don’t want my best bud skipping out on me!
He smiles, and takes a swig of cola.
Looking at that relieved expression, resolve wells up in my heart.
Natsuki: Ryuuji, there’s something I want to talk to you about.
Ryuuji: Huh? Need my help, huh? Well, isn’t this a turn-up for the books?
Natsuki: You know the phantom island I mentioned before? I want to go there.
Ryuuji: What the hell?
Natsuki: It’s not a phantom island at all. It’s an artificial island my grandmother created, floating across the ocean.
Ryuuji: Seriously!?
Ryuuji: Everyone say she was a madwoman or a witch or something, but I didn’t think she’d actually built a whole island…
Natsuki: Well, it’s what she did. I found the notes from its construction in her files. She worked with some organization to build it, but their factories have long sunk.
Ryuuji: So is it, like, some kind of weapon? Like a secret base full of missiles or something?
Natsuki: You’ve watched too many old movies. The island’s a prototype, meant to show that it’s possible to create an entirely self-sustaining seastead.
Natsuki: They called it”Eden.”
Natsuki: My grandmother theorized in the course of her oceanographic research that there would be mass sea level rises, and she started researching how humanity could live long after that.
Ryuuji: Man, your family’s really something else. Dad builds rockets, Gran builds islands…
Ryuuji: But why do you wanna go there? Thinking of carrying on her research or something?
Natsuki: I want to take ATRI there.
Natsuki: She received some kind of last order from my grandmother, and I want her to be able to fulfill it.
Ryuuji: You know that every ship that goes near the phantom island gets capsized though, right? They say the seas get real rough around that thing.
Natsuki: I know it be dangerous, but that’s exactly why I need you.
Ryuuji: Can’t count on anyone but you best bud, right? Well, in that case, I’m not gonna turn you down.
Ryuuji: When do you wanna do this thing?
Natsuki: As soon as possible. We don’t have much time.
Ryuuji: Gotcha. Well, as soon as we’re finished with exams, we’ll set out.
That will be the start of summer break, which sounds perfect to me.
It does mean wasting another few precious days beforehand…
Ryuuji: ATRI’s late, isn’t she?
Natsuki: She should be back soon…
She went off on her own to get ingredients for dinner.
No sooner does Ryuuji mention her than she comes tottering along the street, holding her shopping bags. Rather than coming over to us, however, she trots over to the butcher’s stall.
ATRI: Beef please!
Butcher: Oh, hello there, ATRI-chan. You’re looking as cute as always.
ATRI: Of course, it’s one of my high-performance features. ♪
Butcher: My girl’s been raving about the young professor’s classes lately. Here, let me treat you both to some extra pork croquettes.
ATRI: Thank you so much!
ATRI bows to the butcher and walks toward us with a bag full of meat.
ATRI: Sorry to keep you waiting, Natsuki-san!
ATRI: Here you go, croquettes!
She holds the bag of freebies out toward me.
ATRI: They’re freshy-fried. They’ll definitely be delicious!
Natsuki: Want to share them, then? I know you want them for yourself.
ATRI: H-How did you know that!?
Ryuuji: The face you’re drooling is kinda a clue!
ATRI: Sh-Shut up, you dummy!
Ryuuji: Who are you calling a dummy, you piece of scrap?
ATRI: We’ll see who’s the dumb one here after the end-of-term exams. Ooh, I am looking forward to seeing you prove your idiocy, hehehe…
Ryuuji: Grr, you little…
I watch the two of them go at each other with a smile, but inwardly there’s a tinge of sadness in my heart. Out of the corner of my eye, I notice a strange figure.
Someone: …
Being a man who spends most of my time cooped up in my ship, there are a lot of people in this town I don’t know.
And yet, there’s something particular uncanny about that person…
Natsuki: (An outsider…?)
Someone: …
When he notices my gaze, he calmly sidles off, ducking into a backstreet.
Natsuki: Who was that…?
Ryuuji: Huh? What’s up?
Natsuki: It’s nothing…
ATRI: Natsuki-san, let’s go home. If you spend any more time around this moron, you’ll catch moronicity!
Ryuuji: Yeah, yeah, whatever. I know you pair wanna get back and get all lovey-dovey with each other.
Ririka: Hana-chan!
Catherine: I told you not to call me that. What do you want?
Ririka: Whatcha doing?
Catherine: I’m reading through these documents about The Academy’s admissions process.
Ririka: Ooh, I know that place! That’s where Natsuki went, right!?
Catherine: You can go too, if you want.
Ririka: Yeah, that would be awesome! I want to be just like him!
Catherine: In that case, you’ll have to study even harder.
Ririka: Good job I love studying, then! It’s so much fun!
Catherine: Jeez, I wish all the kids were like you. Teaching would be a piece of cake then.
Ririka: Everyone said they’re gonna try real hard on the exams! If our scores are bad, they’ll shut the place down, won’t they? We all wanna stop that!
Catherine: Good. I need you all trying hard and getting good grades.
Catherine: Particular for your own sake, but partially for mine too. If I lose this job, I don’t know what I’ll do…
Ririka: It’ll be okay, Hana-chan…
Catherine: Don’t call me that!
Ririka: …
Catherine: What’s wrong?
Ririka: There’s someone weird outside.
Catherine: Someone weird?
Someone: …
Catherine: Who is that? It doesn’t look like any of the townspeople…
Ririka: Yeah, I’ve never seen him!
Catherine: Hmm, I recognize him from somewhere…
Someone: …
Ririka: Ah, he ran away! What a weirdo!
Catherine: Was that…?
When we return to the ship, ATRI takes the shopping bags into the kitchen.
ATRI: Are you hungry? I will prepare a meal.
Natsuki: Great, thanks.
Thanks to Minamo and the cooking club, ATRI’s cooking skills have improved greatly. I’m able to leave the dinner preparations to her quite comfortably now.
Natsuki: When exams are over, we’re going to Eden. We might just be able to retrieve some of your memories if we do.
Natsuki: We might have to stay the night there, so get together the things you’ll need.
ATRI: …
ATRI stares down at the ingredients lined up in front of her.
She’s completely still, like a lifeless doll.
Natsuki: What’s wrong?
ATRI: Oh… Nothing.
As soon as she unfreezes, she pulls the log out of her dress pocket and starts reading through it.
ATRI: …
She closes it, and puts it back. Then, as if nothing had happened at all, she starts preparing dinner.
While I’m waiting, I read through another part of the Eden documentation.
Soon, ATRI comes over carrying a tray of plates and bowls.
Natsuki: Mmm, this is great.
I was a little worried about some of the more… avant-grade techniques that I saw her employing in the kitchen, but it’s as delicious as always.
Natsuki: Did you learn to make this at the cooking club?
ATRI: Yes. I learned it from Minamo.
Natsuki: I see.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: …
When I fall silent, so does ATRI. She makes no attempt to speak unless spoken to.
Being around her like this makes my chest tighten agonizingly. I end up wanting more than anything to see those bounding emotions she used to express, even if they merely were a façade.
But it’s no use. I just have to accept that this is the true face of a Humanoid.
Natsuki: (The only reason I told her that I loved her was that I thought she had a heart that could love me back.)
That’s all meaningless now, past events that may as well not have happened.
As I chew on the delicious food, tears start to well in my eyes. The subtle, beautiful flavors make it all the more painful.
ATRI: Umm, Natsuki-san…
Natsuki: Yeah?
I’m so happy to hear her concerned voice that I can only let out the smallest of words.
ATRI: …
She silently holds a pillow in front of her… The pillow embroidered with those three letters, “YES.”
ATRI: …How about it?
Natsuki: …
ATRI: It appears that you did not get any sleep last night. I would like to help you.
She pushes the pillow toward me.
ATRI: So, please…
Natsuki: ATRI… Why do you have to tempt me like this?
Gritting my teeth, I snatch the pillow from her, and throw it down on the floor with the “NO” side upwards.
ATRI: Ah, so that is your answer… Unfortunate.
For a moment I think I see the ghost of a frown cross her face, but I know that that’s just my imagination.
ATRI slowly picks up the pillow, and returns it to the bed.
A few days later, it’s the last day of exams.
Catherine: Okay, pens down.
Catherine: You’ve all made sure to put your names and everything down properly?
She collects together the papers, ready to send them off to the Ministry of Education.
Since we have no internet in this town, all of the tests will have to be sent off to the Ministry by post. Before that, Catherine will be grading them according to an answer sheet.
Minamo: Gahhh, that was so hard!
Yoko: Yeah, I feel like I totally screwed that up!
Ryuuji: Huh, I’m actually feeling okay. I’m pretty sure I’ve not failed at least!
Yoko: That’s not something you should be bragging about…
Minamo: How were they for you, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: Heh heh heh, I answered every single question!
Minamo: Oooh, great! I know you could!
ATRI: Well, exam are a simple test of information processing capability. As a Humanoid, the height of human electronic engineering, they’re exactly in my wheelhouse!
ATRI: I am, after all, extremely high performance.
Minamo: Your cooking’s really improved lately too.
ATRI: Why of course!
While everyone else basks in the post-exam afterglow, I stand and pick up my bag.
Natsuki: Ryuuji, are you ready?
Ryuuji: We’re going already?
Minamo: Are you two going somewhere?
Ryuuji: We’ve got a salvage job… Or something like it, at least.
Ririka: You’re gonna work? I wanna come too!
Ryuuji: You’ve gotta stay behind for this one. It might be too risky for kids, this one.
Ririka: I’m hardly a kid any more! I’ll be fine!
Ryuuji: If you weren’t a kid, you’d listen to me when I say it’s dangerous.
Ririka: I am listening!
Minamo: What are you doing that could be so dangerous, though? Are you sure you’re doing to be okay on your own?
ATRI: You don’t have to worry about us! After all, I’m going with them, and there’s nothing my high-performance self can’t sort out!
Natsuki: We don’t have much time. Let’s go.
ATRI: Roger!
Ryuuji: Yeah, let’s do this.
Catherine: I’m fine with you kids going out on your own like this, but be careful out there, okay?
Ryuuji: Yeah, yeah, gotcha.
After picking up food, water and gasoline at the market on the way, we arrive at the ship.
We get together everything we’ll need, and prepare to weigh anchor.
Ryuuji: Why are you in such a hurry to do this today? We’d have plenty of time over summer vacation.
Natsuki: We just don’t have the time.
Ryuuji: Why not?
Natsuki: …
Ryuuji: Well, if you don’t wanna say, I won’t push it.
Minamo: Natsuk-kun!
Natsuki: Minamo? What’s up?
Minamo: Here, I made you some dinner. Mom said you might need it.
Ririka: That’s right!
Ryuuji: Oh, you’ve come to see us off too, Ririka?
Ririka: Don’t do anything too dangerous now, you three…
Natsuki: …
Ryuuji: Heh, you must be pretty determined to do this if you’re even willing to worry the little ones…
Catherine: Wow, everyone’s scores are better than I expected.
Catherine: I suppose having the school’s future on the line is a good motivator after all.
Catherine: Kamishiro Minamo, seventy-two marks… Pretty good score for someone who was busy playing at being the teacher until recently.
Catherine: Ikaruga Natsuki, one hundred marks… Well, that’s to be expected. Hardly even worth making him do the test, really.
Catherine: Nojima Ryuuji, thirty-three marks… A pass, just about. Tsk, he’s always back-chatting me, and then he goes and gets a grade like this? I think he needs a bit of a seeing-to.
Catherine: ATRI… Hmm, let’s see, this should be a high one. She’s not quite on Natsuki’s level, but she’s probably the smartest behind him. It’s a shame she’s not technically a student here…
Catherine: …Huh?
Catherine: Zero marks…
Catherine: All of her answers read like they were written by a child…
Catherine: What the hell? Is she just messing around?
Catherine: …
Catherine: Hahh, hahh… Natsuki!
Minamo: Hanako!?
Catherine: Don’t call me that! Where’s Natsuki!?
Ririka: They just set sail. They said they won’t be back until tomorrow.
Catherine: Tch…
Minamo: Is there something wrong?
Catherine: Kind of… Did ATRI seem… off, at all?
Minamo: ATRI-chan? She seemed normal to me. Right, Ririka?
Ririka: Umm, I dunno… I think she might have and a fight with Natsuki…
Minamo: Really? They seem completely fine to me.
Ririka: Hmm, I dunno about that…
Catherine: Well… Thank, anyway.
Ririka: Exams were so fun! I wanna do them again!
Catherine: They were only fun because you work so hard every day. Was there anything you didn’t understand?
Ririka: A few things, yeah! I wrote them down.
Catherine: Great, well, we’ll go through them when we get home.
Ririka: Awesome!
Ririka: Huh? Who’s that?
Catherine: Hm?
Catherine: Ah!
Unknown Man: …
Catherine: I knew it. It was you after all, Yasuda.
Yasuda: It’s been a while, Osada-san.
Catherine: Why are you here?
Ririka: Do you know this guy, Hana-chan?
Catherine: A little. I’ve had some… dealings with him in the past.
Catherine: …You knew about ATRI, didn’t you? That’s why you used me.
Yasuda: Indeed, how perspicacious of you. Of course I knew, and of course I used you.
Yasuda: However, I had assumed that would swiftly bring her to me, and yet here we are, with that robot still wandering around town as if it was the most natural thing in the world.
Catherine: Her master refused to sell her to me. Not immediately, at least.
Yasuda: Hmph…
Yasuda: You used to be a teacher, didn’t you?
Catherine: Correction: I am a teacher. Just rehired.
Yasuda: Then I’m sure you will have at least heard the rumors around here? About what happened at this school. The… incident.
Catherine: The incident’…?
Yasuda: You would do well to look into it.
Catherine: Hey, wait!
She’s stopped by a pair of arms around her waist.
Ririka: …
Catherine: What are you doing, Ririka?
Ririka: Don’t follow him. That man, he’s scary…
Catherine: It’s okay. I’m not going to do anything, don’t worry.
Catherine: But just in case, let’s make sure he can’t used the boat to get into the school.
Ririka: Okay…
Kicking up a stream of foam in its wake, the ship sets out for the deep ocean.
Our objective: Eden, the phantom island described in my grandmother’s research.
I have to believe that there, we will find some kind of answer…
Ryuuji: So you do have an idea of where we’re gonna find this thing, right?
Natsuki: Roughly, yeah.
Natsuki: A seastead’s normally going to be anchored to the sea floor somehow. If it wasn’t, it’s be at the mercy of the currents.
Natsuki: That doesn’t seem to be the case with Eden, though. It’s floating freely on the seas.
Ryuuji: So, there’s no guarantee it’ll be in the same place you saw it last time?
Natsuki: Right. And yet, the phantom island seems to appear to people in roughly the same place every time. Why would that be?
Ryuuji: Hmm, you mean… There’s something keeping it on a specific path? Like, it’s… sentient?
He furrows his brow, not quite believing his own explanation.
I shake my head.
Natsuki: No… It’s simply the current.
I pull out a file and pass it to him.
Within it is one of my grandmother’s oceanographical studies, showing the currents off of the shore here.
Ryuuji: So the Oyashio current is pulling in this direction, and the Kuroshio in the opposite… And there’s this area of… “recirculation” off of the coast here?
Natsuki: Exactly. I think Eden is caught in this recirculation, moving in a circle in this region.
It likely wasn’t the intended design-my grandmother and her team must have simply lost track of Eden’s position somehow.
Ryuuji: There’s still the thing about it being covered in fog, though. Why is that? There’s gotta be some kinda trick to that.
Ryuuji’s face goes ever so slightly pale, but I remain entirely composed.
Natsuki: That’s another trick of the currents. Sea fog occurs when the warm winds blowing from toward shore clash with the cold winds carried in by the currents from out to sea.
Natsuki: The fact that the island seems to be coated in mist is, if anything, proof that it’s being carried around on a current.
Ryuuji: In that case, we can aim for wherever there’s fog, and we might just find, right?
Natsuki: Yeah. If we get close enough, ATRI should be able to sense it.
Ryuuji: You can do that, toaster?
ATRI: Hehehe, just another of my high-performance abilities.
We have more than enough evidence from the last time we encountered Eden that ATRI is capable of intercepting signals from the island.
Natsuki: So, we’ll make a heading for wherever fog appears, and then use ATRI like a radar.
Ryuuji: And then how do we land on the island, exactly?
Natsuki: …That, I don’t know. The files didn’t say anything about any specific landing areas. We’ll find the island, and work it out from there.
Ryuuji: …
He peers at the ocean map with a furrowed brow.
Ryuuji: Okay, Natsu, I know you said you don’t have much time, but… Don’t you think you might be pushing it a little here?
Ryuuji: You know what they say about the island, right? That is capsizes any ship that comes near.
Ryuuji: If we get there and it looks like it’s going to be too dangerous, we should be prepared to pull out.
Natsuki: Yeah…
I nod, but my voice and my expression betray my uneasiness.
Ryuuji: C’mon, man, there’s a lotta summer left. Let’s take this easy.
ATRI: Sorry to interrupt, but we’re almost at the point where we encountered the island last time.
ATRI, it turns out, has a built-in GPS system. Of course has, she’s “high performance.”
Natsuki: Okay, drop the anchor. Prepare to dive.
The ship comes to a stop, and we set about getting ready to launch the submarine.
ATRI: All changed!
ATRI trots out onto the deck in her swimsuit.
I hand Ryuuji my walking stick.
Natsuki: If you see the island while we’re down there, contact me right away.
Ryuuji: Gotcha.
Natsuki: Are you still there, ATRI?
I peek out of the window to check that she’s still holding on to the sub.
Since she’s unable to float on her own, if she lost purchase she could be swallowed up by the sea.
To that end, we’ve been attaching her to the hull with a rope, which we unhook when the time comes to actually work on the sea bed.
After diving for a while, we reach the bottom.
I signal out of the window to ATRI.
Natsuki: If you find what we’re looking for, come back and tell me.
ATRI: …
She gives me an affirmative.
I wait alone in the sub for a while, until she comes back, pointing off in a direction.
ATRI: …
Directed by her, I push forwards until we find the same kind of undersea cable we did before.
We follow it out to sea.
ATRI: …
ATRI unhooks her rope, and walks away from the Serpens Albus.
She returns holding the severed end of the cable.
Natsuki: Ryuuji, can you hear me?
Ryuuji: Loud and clear. What’s up?
Natsuki: We’ve found the end of the cable. Send down the sinker.
Ryuuji: Roger.
Ryuuji hits the lever above, and below we trace a route back from the end of the cable.
Back at the point directly below the ship, there’s now a lead weight sunk to the sea floor.
Attached to it is a rope, linking it to buoy on the surface.
It’s a market that will indicate the position of this cable, should we need it.
Naturally, this is another item from my grandmother’s old stock of research equipment. We’ve used buoys like this in our salvage work a few times.
Natsuki: ATRI, tie the cable to the sinker.
ATRI winds her rope around the cable and the weight, tying the two together.
This won’t just stop the cable drifting off, it’ll also allow us to pull it up with the crane should we need to.
Natsuki: Excellent work. Let’s head back to the ship.
ATRI grabs on to the sub’s frame, and I charge the ballast tanks with compressed air to send the sub floating upwards.
Ryuuji: So, why exactly are we marking the cable again?
Natsuki: I’ve just got a hunch that that might be something to do with Eden. It might have been intended to connect the island to the mainland.
It could have broken when the island was caught up in the currents.
Ryuuji: So it’s a telecoms cable, or something?
Natsuki: Probably. We might have to work out how to reconnect it when we get to Eden.
Ryuuji: Gotcha, so this is a precaution?
Natsuki: It might come to nothing in the end…
Ryuuji: Nah, I think it’s a good idea to plan ahead like this. This is one of those things that makes me trust you so much, y’know?
ATRI: I’ve finished changing.
Natsuki: Good work out there, ATRI.
ATRI: Was I helpful?
Natsuki: Yeah, we couldn’t have done it without you.
ATRI: Hehe, now you’re getting the hang of how to deploy my high-performance abilities. ♪
ATRI: Unlike a certain person who spent the whole mission sitting all comfy up here on the ship.
Ryuuji: Shut up, toaster. If I wasn’t up here, we couldn’t have deployed the buoy.
Natsuki: He’s out here helping for free, you know. Be polite, now.
ATRI: Grr… Well, good work. You did your best, I suppose.
Ryuuji: Hahaha, you’d better be grateful, or you’re going overboard, scrapheap.
ATRI: Grrr, don’t take that tone with me, dummy!
ATRI: Catherine’s probably grading your test right now with a bottle of whiskey in one hand and her face in the other.
Ryuuji: Gah, that’s a really realistic-sounding insult… Damn toaster!
ATRI: …
Ryuuji: Wh-Whoa, why are you crying all of a sudden!? I-I didn’t mean to be harsh…!
Ryuuji panics as the robot suddenly explodes into floods of tears.
ATRI: Oh, don’t mind me, I’m just cleaning the sea salt out of my optical sensors.
ATRI: I don’t possess the standard crying mechanisms of human beings.
Ryuuji: E-Err, right… Man, you gave me a fright there.
While my two companions playfully(?) argue, I weigh the anchor and set a course forward.
Natsuki: Feel anything yet, ATRI?
We’ve spent half a day anchored in the path I estimate Eden is drifting along. It might not be long before we encounter it.
ATRI: …Affirmative. It is, however, extremely faint.
She responds dispassionately.
Inside the cabin, Ryuuji is listening to the radio at an absurd volume.
He’s had his head practically attached to the thing all day.
Because he only has a battery-powered radio at home, he’s extremely envious of my wind-powered ship where I hardly have to scrimp and save on power.
Natsuki: Eden will probably be drifting in from the west. The fog should come soon…
I can feel the moist sea air climbing portentously to my skin already.
ATRI: I see.
Natsuki: It’s almost time… Time for you to carry out your last order.
It has to be the place, surely. I don’t know why it would be calling out to her otherwise.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: Aren’t you happy?
ATRI: I do not know how to experience “happiness.”
Natsuki: …Of course.
Natsuki: Can I ask you something?
ATRI: Yes?
Natsuki: You knew all this time that you were going to shut down, didn’t you?
ATRI: Affirmative.
Natsuki: So… Why did you want to study?
ATRI: I do not understand the meaning of your question.
Natsuki: Well, when your brain shuts down, you’ll lose all of your memories, won’t you? So what’s the point in going to school, and learning everything you have?
No human that knew their death was approaching would choose to spend their days at school. It would be pointless, surely?
ATRI: I desired to become a more useful Humanoid.
Natsuki: By, say, learning to cook so that you could feed me?
She nods.
Humanoids are programmed to do everything they can to be of greatest use to their masters…
Natsuki: But what about everything else you studied? Was that just to make me happier, as your teacher?
She shakes her head strongly.
ATRI: That was also to achieve a greater degree of usefulness.
Natsuki: Why, though? What were you going to use all of that knowledge for?
ATRI: I do not know when my accrued knowledge will become useful. I have not been equipped with the necessary faculties to achieve precognition.
There’s something about the coldness of her words that makes my blood boil.
Natsuki: Then it’s pointless, surely? When do you think the stuff you’ve been learning is ever going to come in useful? After all, you’re about to…
ATRI: I am about to… What?
Natsuki: …Nothing. I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to say it like that.
ATRI: I do not mind. I do not have feelings to hurt. Please say that you were going to say.
Natsuki: I don’t want to say it.
ATRI: Understood.
…
With no other words to say, we both fall silent.
Then, almost as if she’s trying to prove her usefulness by making conversation, ATRI raises a question.
ATRI: Why aren’t you going to return to The Academy?
Natsuki: This again… I told you. I prefer living here.
ATRI: Will you be able to save the world while living here?
Natsuki: No, and I don’t plan to try.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: Everyone has their limits. Maybe it’s okay if everyone just tries to save everyone in, say, a five meter radius. If every person did the same, wouldn’t that mean everyone was saved?
Natsuki: I’ve always lived so selfishly, but recently, I’ve realized that nothing is going to change if I keep being like that.
Natsuki: You might not understand, but for humans, this is happiness.
ATRI: That is not happiness.
Natsuki: Who are you to judge what happiness is?
ATRI: It is not a judgement. It is an objective observation. This is not happiness.
Natsuki: I’ll decide what makes me happy, thanks.
ATRI: I perceive that if you insist that your current situation is one of happiness, happiness would be a meaningless concept.
Natsuki: Then what would be happiness for me!?
ATRI: Well-
Ryuuji: Hey, Natsu!
Ryuuji pops his head out of the cabin door.
Ryuuji: Wanna warm up the dinners Minamo made us? I’m getting hungry in here.
Natsuki: Okay, let’s do that.
I stop the ship, and drop the anchor.
It look like this is where we’ll be staying for the night.
Natsuki: Let’s go, ATRI.
ATRI: Okay! ♪
No longer alone, ATRI reverts to her usual, carefree smile.
I wake in the night to discover the ship swaying on the waves.
It’s still dark outside. But the clock says that the sun should be rising right about now.
The ship creaks as it rolls on the waves.
Natsuki: We must have hit a rough patch…
I put on my prosthetic leg, and start to stand up from the bed.
ATRI: Natsuki-san.
ATRI is already awake.
ATRI: I hear something calling to me from close by.
Exiting the cabin, we find the ship enveloped in a fog so thick that it completely blots out the morning light.
In the gloom shines one single spot of red light.
The ship rocks as the heavy waves batter its sides.
ATRI grabs me and keeps me upright.
Natsuki: Thanks…
ATRI: There is no need to thank me. This is my duty.
An enormous shadow looms out of the fog.
A colossal shape, unfathomably dark and unnerving.
Natsuki: That’s Eden…
ATRI: It’s calling to me… The signal is definitely coming from there.
Natsuki: Ryuuji! Wake up!
Ryuuji: Dude, what’s going on…?
He comes out onto the deck, rubbing his bleary eyes.
Ryuuji: Whoa! What the hell!?
Natsuki: That’s Eden. It’s come to us!
It passes by right in front of where we’re anchored.
Natsuki: It’s faster than I thought it would be. We’ll have to chase it down!
Ryuuji: Hold on a sec, we should pull back first!
I stumble across the deck as it rocks in the island’s wake, like a tiny, fragile leaf.
I hoist the anchor, and fire up the engine.
Ryuuji: Wait, look at that!
The island is surrounded by a ring of billowing waves, as if it’s trying to prevent anything coming close.
Natsuki: The waves are coming from Eden itself…
With the seas rolling so intensely, making land on the island seems like it could be impossible.
But we have no choice but to try.
Ryuuji: Dude, we’re seriously gonna capsize at this rate! We should pull back and think about this!
Natsuki: We don’t have time for that! If we let it get away, it might be days before we find it again!
Ryuuji: Then we’ll just have to wait! That’s fine, right?
Natsuki: No, it’s not! ATRI could die before we see it again!
Ryuuji: What!?
Natsuki: Argh!
I’m thrown from the control cabin as a wave crashes right into the side of the ship.
I look up from the deck to see that Eden is so close that it’s almost scraping hulls with my ship.
Ryuuji: That thing’s gonna hit us! We need to get out of here!
Ryuuji rushes to the cabin and tries to slam the engines into reverse.
Natsuki: Wait, we might still be able to land on it! I have to save ATRI!
ATRI: It’s too dangerous, Natsuki-san!
Another wave rocks the ship.
The shock rips my hands from the railings, and my body goes flying through the air.
ATRI: Natsuki-san!?
Time seems to freeze. I stare into that red light shining through the fog.
Until I hit the water, and sink into the inky blackness.
I awaken to the sound of twittering birds.
There’s a strange, tingling pain in my cheeks.
Natsuki: Ugh…
I open my eyes to a blue sky so bright that it’s almost blinging.
Natsuki: What happened…?
I move my head, and feel the sensation of grass against my skin.
I slowly sit up.
Natsuki: Where am I…?
A completely alien landscape stretches out before me.
The sky is a brilliant cyan, hanging over a field of flowers.
Little birds twitter and flitter around me.
Looking around, I set my eyes on a particular striking object.
Natsuki: A tower? Is that… a lighthouse?
The strangely-shaped tower stretches up into the cloudless sky.
It’s swaying, back and forth…
Natsuki: No, wait. It’s the ground that’s moving.
Amidist the twittering of the birds, I can hear the sound of waves.
I try to stand up, but I instantly realize that something’s missing.
Natsuki: My prosthetic’s gone…
I can’t see anything around me that looks-like it.
My clothes and my hair are a little damp.
Finally, the last few moments before I passed out come back to me.
Natsuki: I got thrown off of the ship…
All I can remember after that is sinking into the sea.
I have no idea how I ended up here, but this must be Eden.
My prosthetic probably came off when I fell overboard, but somehow I made it here on one leg.
It’s lucky that I have plenty of experience doing things without my prosthetic on, like when I get out of the shower or immediately after waking up. I should be able to move around perfectly well like this.
Natsuki: What a beautiful island…
Standing up, I take in my surroundings properly.
A wide expanse of green stretches out in front of me, broken only by a clear, sparkling stream flowing through it. Birds frolic in the skies.
This place is like some kind of paradise.
If I was a religious man, I would have thought that I’d drowned in the ocean and gone to heaven.
I approach the stream, and scoop up some water in my hands.
Natsuki: It seems so pure…
Where is it flowing from?
This island cant’ be that big. This can’t all just be rainwater, can it?
I follow the stream up in search of its source.
The water seems to be flowing out of some kind of man-made building.
Natsuki: What is this building? It doesn’t seem to just be some kind of huge water purifier…
I examine its walls, finding a little green insect clinging to it.
Natsuki: There are bugs on this island?
The birds here must survive by feeding on these.
I’m no insectologist, but this bug doesn’t seem to be any kind I’ve ever seen before. I’m curious about how the ecosystem on this island functions.
Peering closely at it, I notice something odd.
Natsuki: It’s eating the wall…
I know that snails can eat concrete and incorporate it into their shells, but this insect has no such protection.
There’s something coming out of its rear, though.
It seems like it’s digesting the concrete and excreting some kind of glue…
I pick the insect up in my fingers.
Natsuki: I knew it. This isn’t a real bug.
It’s just a robot in the shape of one.
Natsuki: Is it repairing the walls!?
It seems like it’s chewing up damaged parts and filling them in with whatever it’s excreting.
Looking around, I can see a lot of similar insects on the building’s walls.
Natsuki: These must be some kind of automatic maintenance robots…
While on the surface this island may look like an all-natural paradise, it’s evidently being kept in that state by the power of science.
Natsuki: This building is making the fresh water too… This is amazing. This place is incredible!
Natsuki: Right, ATRI!?
In my excitement I instinctively call out for her, only to realize that she’s not there.
Natsuki: Oh yeah, where is she…?
ATRI: Natsuki-san!?
She jumped into the sea after me.
Natsuki: ATRI!
I hope around frantically, searching for her.
Natsuki: No way. She didn’t sink, did she…?
Natsuki: ATRIIIIIIII!
Natsuki: Whoa!
My foot catches on something, and I go tumbling across the soft grass.
Natsuki: Owww…
ATRI: Are you okay, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: ATRI!?
The thing I tripped over is a prone ATRI, staring motionlessly up into the sky.
ATRI: Good… You’re safe…
Natsuki: ATRI, are you all right!? Are you damaged!?
I examine her body, but I can’t find any sign of external injuries.
ATRI: I am fin. I simply expended a large amount of energy rescuing you, and have had to temporarily power down several systems.
Natsuki: You can’t swim, can you? How did you manage to save me?
ATRI: I learned to swim in our gym class.
ATRI: You just have to scoop the water with your hands, and move your feet like a dolphin’s tail.
She weakly tries to demonstrate, but it seems like she can hardly move.
ATRI: If I take a big breath, I can achieve a certain degree of buoyancy. Then it is merely a case of using my hands and feet properly.
Natsuki: So you grabbed me out of the ocean, and pulled me up here?
ATRI: Affirmative.
Natsuki: Why would you risk drowning like that?
ATRI: Oh? Do I need a reason to act in your aid, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: …Well, I guess it’s my fault you ended up like this.
ATRI: Indeed. Please refrain from reckless action in future.
Relief and regret welling in my chest, tears start to stream down my cheek and fall down onto ATRI’s face.
She reaches up to gently wlpe my eyes.
ATRI: Humans cry so easily. Or are you simply cleaning the sea water out of your optical receptors?
Natsuki: I’m just so glad that you’re safe…
I grab ATRI and pull her into an embrace, crying on her shoulder.
She frowns, but she offers no resistance.
Natsuki: What happened to the ship?
ATRI: I do not know.
Looking out to sea, I see nothing but an expanse of blue.
The fog has completely cleared up, but the waters around the island are as rough as they were when hit the ship.
Natsuki: Does it make the waves deliberately, to stop people making land here?
It’s certainly possible, but it could also be just a problem with the construction. This island is only a prototype, after all.
ATRI: …Oh?
A little bird comes down to sit on the unmoving ATRI’s head, peering curiously at her face.
ATRI: Do you have some business with me?
Natsuki: I think it wants to play with you…
ATRI: It’s quite rude of it to sit on my face…
She reaches up to weakly stroke the bird’s back.
More birds soon join their friend, sitting on her chest and shoulders.
Natsuki: Seems like you’re popular around here.
ATRI: It’s ever so slightly annoying.
Despite this, she doesn’t shoo them away.
While she entertains her new friends, I start to strip off a branch to make a walking stick.
ATRI: You don’t need that. I’m here.
Natsuki: You can’t even more. Just rest here, and I’ll take a look around.
Propping myself up on the stick, I start to examine our surroundings.
In the center of the island is the large building. I can’t tell if there’s a way in, or what exactly it is.
Natsuki: If you looked at just this, you’d think this was some kind of military installation.
It could pass for some kind of secret weapon.
Surrounding it, however, is a verdant field of green.
This island is teeming with birds, insects, and those odd little maintenance robots.
Natsuki: There’s fruit on the trees, and fresh water, so it doesn’t seem like we’re in danger of starving…
The island is truly astounding to look at, almost paradise, and I soon realize exactly what is keeping it so beautiful.
Just like the robotic insects I saw before, there are all manner of mechanical creatures seemingly keeping the island running.
They come in all kind of shapes, from butterflies to spiders.
Natsuki: ATRI…
ATRI: Welcome back, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Look, I found you a new friend.
I hold out one of the insects in front of her.
ATRI: Oh… It’s another robot.
Natsuki: Yeah. All of the robots here seem to have some kind of role in maintaining the island.
Natsuki: Some of them repair buildings, some of them seem to be keeping the grass and the trees healthy… And when they die, they’re buried in the soil and decompose.
ATRI: So it’s a system that use multiple types of maintenance robots to maintain the ecosystem?
By splitting up their roles like this, this huge island can be maintained by nothing more than these tiny machines.
Natsuki: These seem so much more technologically-advanced than anything I’ve been before. Just when did my grandmother invent these?
My grandmother was still young in the era when humanity was at its technological peak. She must have been predicting the sea rises even that long ago…
ATRI: …
The only other thing this advanced I’ve ever come across is ATRI herself. A Humanoid like her would be practically impossible to build from scratch these days.
Natsuki: This island is incredible…
ATRI: It is quite high performance…
Natsuki: Err, what’s up with you?
ATRI: Nothing. I’m just tired, so I’m going to sleep.
Lying on the grass, she instantly goes into sleep mode.
It’s probably my imagination again, but she almost seems to be pouting.
ATRI doesn’t open her eyes again until sunset.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: Ah, you’re awake. Good morning.
ATRI: Is it morning? It appears to be sunset to me.
Natsuki: Yeah, it’s the evening.
ATRI: Then why did you say “good morning”? You should have said “good evening” or something.
Natsuki: Well, I guess I won’t make that joke again…
ATRI: By the way, why are you naked?
Natsuki: My clothes are drying. And I’m not naked, I’ve just taken my shirt off.
ATRI: And why am I naked?
Natsuki: Your clothes are drying too.
ATRI: Oh, so you stripped me? I believe that would legally be viewed as sexual harassment.
Natsuki: You sleep like that next to me every night, and you’re worried about it now?
ATRI: …Did you do something to me while I was asleep?
Natsuki: No comment.
ATRI: Ah. Yes, definitely sexual harassment.
Natsuki: I was joking, I didn’t do anything. I’m not pathetic enough to play around with a sleeping girl.
ATRI: I wonder about that. You seem more pathetic than you used to be.
ATRI: When you were a child, you had a much stronger will.
Natsuki: I’ve just learned to see the world for how it really is.
Natsuki: Can you stand up?
ATRI: If necessary, yes, but I have yet to recover all of my functionality.
Natsuki: Okay, well, don’t push yourself.
Natsuki: I went and picked some fruit. Eat up.
ATRI: …
ATRI looks at me with dissatisfaction.
Natsuki: Don’t you want any?
ATRI: I do not require the nutrition.
Natsuki: Delicious things make you happy, though, don’t they? Come on…
I peel one of the fruits and hold it in front of her mouth.
ATRI just stares at it.
ATRI: Did you harvest these? Without your leg?
Natsuki: Well, I didn’t have much else to do when you were dozing away.
ATRI: And now you’re peeling them for me.
Natsuki: Well, that part’s easy.
ATRI: This is somewhat harmful to my pride as a robot.
ATRI: This should have been my duty… I suppose I really am a piece of scrap.
Natsuki: It can’t be helped in this situation. Looking after his robot is a master’s job, right?
Just like I clean her teeth every morning, in fact.
ATRI: If only I really were a military robot, I wouldn’t have ended up like this…
She takes a chomp of the fruit. Her face contorts.
ATRI: It’s really sour… But it’s tasty.
Natsuki: There’s still a lot on the trees over there. We’ll probably be having them tomorrow too.
ATRI: I will pick them tomorrow. I should be fully functional by then.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: …Why do you look so disappointed?
Natsuki: I was just thinking that I quite like you like this.
ATRI: What, of no use whatsoever?
Natsuki: You’re always helping me out, but I never get the chance to be the one caring for you. It’s nice to dote on you for a change.
ATRI: I’m not sure I would describe this as “doting”…
ATRI: But very well, if that is what you wish.
ATRI: Come a little closer, please.
Natsuki: Huh?
I lean in.
ATRI throws her arms around me and pulls me into an embrace.
ATRI: This is my best spoiled baby Natsuki impression. I don’t know how else to be doted on.
Natsuki: Do I really act like this?
ATRI: Affirmative.
She says nothing else. She merely closes her eyes.
Natsuki: Are you going to sleep again?
ATRI: …Ahhhhn.
ATRI opens her mouth wide, and I gladly shove another piece of fruit in it.
Natsuki: You like that?
ATRI: It’s lovely and sour…
Natsuki: Good. There’s plenty where that came from, so eat up and get better.
ATRI: I cannot actually process the nutrition they contain, so eating more would be meaningless. I’m sorry, I really am a piece of scrap…
There’s something so adorable about her apologies that I can’t help but peel another piece to give to her.
By nightfall, she seems to have perked up a little.
Natsuki: It’s getting a little cold, isn’t it?
The wind is bringing an ocean chill onto the island.
I put my now-dry shirt back on.
Natsuki: You should put your clothes on too, ATRI.
ATRI: If that is what you wish.
Natsuki: It very much is.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: …What’s with that look?
ATRI: I have been taught that human expressions can be used as a silent substitute for questions. In this case, “Do you really not want me lying here half-naked and defenseless any more?”
Natsuki: Err, no. Put some clothes no.
She begrudgingly slips into her dress.
Natsuki: So, have you remembered what your last order was?
ATRI: falls silent for a moment, frowning.
ATRI: Sorry, I can’t remember it at all.
Natsuki: Do you know anything about this island? My grandmother had something that she wanted you to do here.
ATRI: I can’t remember anything…
Natsuki: Huh, right…
I have to admit that I’d assumed that just arriving on the island would revive her memories, but I guess that was naïve of me.
Natsuki: I suppose we’ll have to go exploring, and find exactly what you’re supposed to do here.
Natsuki: When the sun comes up tomorrow, we’ll look for a way inside that building.
ATRI: Umm…
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: Would it be acceptable if I had you dote on me a little more?
Natsuki: Fine by me, but it’s not like you to ask for that.
I suppose she just feels vulnerable when she’s weak like this.
That said, that would only be a learned response, right? She shouldn’t be showing her fake emotions around me.
ATRI: The only way I can aid you currently is to let you dote on me.
Natsuki: What, and you think I want to do that?
ATRI: When you did it earlier, you did not appear to be displeased.
Natsuki: …
Things have been so awkward between the two of us these past few days.
Ever since I discovered that ATRI’s emotions are just simulations, I haven’t really known how to act around her.
Natsuki: Well, if that’s what you want, then I will gladly oblige.
ATRI: Okay then…
She leans against me, and I wrap my arms around her.
Natsuki: I’m really nice warm like this.
ATRI: Me too…
ATRI: My temperature is lower than normal due to my reduced power output… I can feel your body warmth, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: I suppose I’ll have to keep you good and warm, then.
ATRI: That will have no effect on my functionality, so it is unnecessary.
That’s a surprisingly cold reaction…
Natsuki: Well, I suppose I won’t, then.
I try to pull away, but ATRI holds onto me.
ATRI: Please don’t stop.
Natsuki: Why not? You said yourself, it’s unnecessary.
ATRI: It is indeed unnecessary, but… Being by your side is soothing.
Natsuki: So it feels good?
ATRI: I do not feel anything. I do not have a heart.
She replies apologetically.
Natsuki: Well, I don’t care about that. I still think that you have emotions, and I still love you.
Natsuki: So I’m more than happy to hold you like this.
ATRI: You’re quite easy to please if this is all it takes. Very efficient.
Natsuki: That’s just how high-performance you are. Just being close to you soothes my soul.
ATRI: So I am high performance…
Mumbling with seeming surprise, she clings onto my arm.
Everything falls silent.
The birds have returned to their nests, and the only sound that can be heard is the occasional rustles of maintenance robots in the grass.
In the distance, the waves wash against the island’s shore.
It’s a beautiful, peaceful night.
So tranquil that I could almost forget that we were shipwrecked here.
Natsuki: Maybe the two of us should just live on this island…
I mumble idly to myself.
Natsuki: This place is like paradise. We’ve got all the food and water we could ever need.
Natsuki: I can see why they called this Eden. You really could start a whole new life here. A whole new world, even.
It feels just like we’re a modern Adam and Eve…
ATRI: …I may be high performance, but unfortunately I am not equipped with the necessary functionality for reproduction.
ATRI: You would require at least one more human to start a new society.
Natsuki: The world’s going to be swallowed up by the sea anyway. We don’t have to worry about that kind of thing.
Any new world we started would just end anyway.
ATRI: …
ATRI: Have we been saved?
Natsuki: Maybe. This feeling of relief, this peace… Maybe this is salvation.
This surely must be the most serene experience I’ve had since the day I lost my leg.
ATRI: So simply accepting our doom and living lazily here until we die would be salvation.
ATRI: My database makes a clear distinction between the worlds “paradise” and “graveyard,” but it seems you do not.
ATRI: Should you not, if you have any life left, strive to survive as best you can?
The harshness of her words instantly brings me back to reality.
Natsuki: Is that why you spent the last days before you stop functioning studying?
Soon, her memories will completely break down. While she may physically be able to go on living, the current ATRI may as well be dead.
Everything in her mind will be lost, including everything she’s studied.
Natsuki: Isn’t that pointless? You understand that, right?
ATRI: Is something pointless because you will one day die? Does that not make all of human life pointless?
ATRI: In that case it would be more efficient for all humans to simply die.
That would make all of human progress meaningless, wouldn’t it?
Even the Earth itself will one day be swallowed by the sun. The universe too will one day reach its heat death.
But… But I…
Natsuki: I can’t live that way, ATRI. Even though I know that you’re going to be leaving me so soon…
I don’t know how I’m going to go on when she isn’t here.
I can hardly remember how l lived before she came back into my life.
ATRI: May I ask a question?
Natsuki: Yeah?
ATRI: You believe that me studying even though I am going to die is pointless?
Natsuki: Well, of course.
ATRI: In that case, why did you tell me that you love me?
Natsuki: What…?
ATRI: You had already realized that I was dying, hadn’t you? So what was the point in telling me you loved me, if our love could only ever last a few days?
ATRI turns and stares at me.
As expressionless as her face is, there’s something approaching expectation in her eyes.
Natsuki: Well, yeah, I’d worked it out.
Natsuki: But still… I had to tell you. I needed you to know that I love you.
Natsuki: I don’t know why. I’ve never felt this way about someone before.
I lived my whole life thinking I could never fall in love with anyone, but when she came into my life, it felt like she reawakened that natural instinct within me.
ATRI: Let me add a further question. Was that pointless?
Natsuki: What, telling you how I felt?
She nods.
After I told her I loved her, we lived out those few wonderful days as boyfriend and girlfriend.
Of course, it was all just a façade, a robot’s attempt at giving me the illusion of happiness.
I want to tell her it wasn’t all meaningless, but… I don’t have the confidence in my own words to say it.
Natsuki: (I knew that the end was coming for her, and I just wanted her last days to be happy…)
I wanted to make her dying days have some kind of meaning.
She looked so happy…
I thought I’d managed to bring some joy to her short life.
It was only when I read those logs that I realized what a folly that was.
I was just doing it for my own satisfaction. I was letting my fantasies of the good life completely take over me.
Natsuki: It… It might have been pointless after all, yes.
ATRI: I see…
ATRI: I would not make the same judgement. The time I spent as your lover was of much greater utility than the time that I was not.
ATRI: That has not changed. The time I spend together with you is infinitely preferable to the time we are apart.
Natsuki: I wish I could be as strong as you, ATRI…
ATRI: I am merely a robot. I do not have feelings to hurt.
Natsuki: I look at you, and all I can see is a cute girl.
ATRI: …
ATRI: That was how my outer shell was designed. It is not a functionality I selected or achieved myself.
ATRI: I would like to attain an existence that is valued for the knowledge and skills I have acquired.
With her dying day approaching, she really wants to fulfill that wish.
It’s such a pure and noble motive, compared to my desperation…
Natsuki: Can I ask you a question, ATRI?
ATRI: Of course.
Natsuki: It’s about what we were talking about on the ship, when we were interrupted. What do you think happiness would be for me?
She believes that I’m not happy currently.
She was about to explain what she meant before…
ATRI: A future.
ATRI: You have so much more time left on this earth compared to me. There are so many things you could create.
ATRI: Please don’t throw away your future.
Natsuki: So you’re telling me to go back to The Academy?
She nods.
Natsuki: You think that’s where my future lies?
ATRI: Affirmative.
ATRI: You said it yourself. If you don’t save the world, you won’t be saved.
Natsuki: Haha…
I turn away, laughing a hollow laugh.
Natsuki: ATRI… Are you trying to make fun of me? Or is it just an accident?
ATRI: Oh?
Natsuki: I’m not the person you and everyone else seems to think I am.
ATRI: What do you mean by that?
Natsuki: I was a dropout. A dropout, ATRI!
ATRI: You were…?
Natsuki: Yeah. A dropout, but too proud to admit it.
ATRI: But weren’t you a top student at The Academy?
Natsuki: I was at first. I looked down on all of the other pupils, and even the teachers.
Natsuki: I even thought that I could be the one teaching them.
Natsuki: But that was only the first couple of years.
Natsuki: The more I studied, the more I understand the truth… That there’s no way to save the world.
Natsuki: And the harder I worked to convince myself otherwise, the more it drained me. My grades started to nosedive.
Natsuki: That was when everyone started to pay me back for all of the arrogance and disregard I’d shown them.
Natsuki: I lost my scholarship, and suddenly I had to pay my way again. I had no money, and I had to sell my cybernetic leg.
Natsuki: I though that if I just tried my hardest again, I could get back to the top of the class.
Natsuki: But I just didn’t have the concentration to do that. Not without an objective, not without any reason to go on.
Natsuki: I couldn’t keep on living there, with no leg, and no friends.
When I sold my cybernetic leg, my phantom pain came back. Every night was hell.
Exhausted, my grades dropped so how you could count my test scores on your fingers.
Natsuki: Even if I did go back to the Academy, there’s no guarantee that I could return to the level of achievement I had initially.
Natsuki: I’m… I’m scared to find out just how worthless I really am.
That, above everything else, was why I ran away from The Academy.
Not being able to afford the tuition fees was nothing but an excuse. I was using that and my leg to justify giving up.
While I turn over those regrets in my mind, ATRI mumbles dejectedly.
ATRI: So there’s no way to save the world…
ATRI: And no way to save me…
Natsuki: ATRI…?
Her normally blank and expressionless face is tinged with sadness.
Natsuki: Don’t worry. Even if I can’t save the world, I can at least save you.
Natsuki: That’s why we’ve come to this island.
ATRI: I see…
For all the upheaval we’ve experienced, one thing hasn’t changed-I want to make ATRI happy.
ATRI: What am I…?
A heartbreakingly forlorn look passes over her blank face.
After a night with ATRI in my arms, morning arrives. I set out to explore the island again.
This time, a fully-rested ATRI accompanies me, lending me her shoulder to lean on.
ATRI: I suppose that I actually am a highly useful, helpful robot after all.
She expressionlessly looks down on the tiny maintenance robots busily working away on the island.
Natsuki: (Does she really feel the need to compete with other machines?)
In the light of the morning, I’m astounded again by the island’s construction.
Natsuki: This place is pretty huge. There’s so much foliage that I’m not sure we can even walk over to the other side.
Natsuki: I can’t believe that my grandmother had a hand in this…
Although I say that, but if there’s one person who could make this island, it would be her.
It probably took her and her team years to gradually build it up, just like how the robotic insects build their hives.
But just building it wouldn’t be enough. Floating out here on the ocean, eventually something would come along and damage it somehow. To prevent that, she had to make it self-sustaining.
She truly was trying to create an entirely new way for humanity to live on after all of our lands sunk beneath the seas.
Natsuki: So this is an option too…
When I was studying at The Academy, I only ever considered possibilities such as somehow stopping the sea rise, or colonizing space.
The received wisdom was that seasteading wasn’t practical. I never even considered it.
But my grandmother was the kind of person who would pour absolutely everything to her research.
Even her closet relatives though she was eccentric. Mad, even.
Natsuki: ATRI, are you sensing anything?
ATRI: I can feel something calling me from that direction…
With ATRI guiding me, we manage to find what appears to be an entrance to the concrete building.
Unfortunately, it’s not just locked. It’s blocked up by a huge wall of tree roots.
Natsuki: Dammit, we’re never going to be able to get in there.
I try to pull away some of the roots, but they don’t budge.
Natsuki: ATRI, do you think you can do anything about this?
ATRI: …
Natsuki: ATRI?
ATRI: If I disengage my power limiter, I could break through. However, I would not recommend it.
Natsuki: Why not?
ATRI: It may leave me without the necessary power required to assist in getting off the island.
Natsuki: You want to fulfill your old master’s last wish though, don’t you? The key to that could be right behind this door.
ATRI: That is true. However, I cannot allow you to come to harm in the process.
Natsuki: I’m not going to die here or anything. I could live forever on this island.
ATRI: Do you intend to live here alone even after I have ceased functioning?
Natsuki: …
Without ATRI, I wouldn’t care what happened to me.
Natsuki: Well, we don’t have any way off of the island for now. We should prioritize doing what we can here.
ATRI: …
ATRI silently places a hand on the wall of the building.
The instant she touches it, it shudders.
Natsuki: It opened? How did you do that?
ATRI: I simply commanded it to open.
I’m just about able to squeeze through the roots covering the door, and get inside.
ATRI joins me, and we examine our surroundings.
Inside is a large, strangely tranquil hall. It almost feels like a temple.
Natsuki: What is this room?
ATRI: It is the central control room. All of Eden’s functions are controlled from here.
Unexpectedly, ATRI is able to answer my question.
Natsuki: How do you know that?
ATRI: I am connected to it.
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: I have linked with the central control computer. It has welcomed me, as Eden’s core.
Natsuki: It… “Welcomed” you?
I don’t understand a word she’s saying.
ATRI: Allow me to show you some schematics.
Lights flicker across the walls. A second later, an enormous window-like object opens up above us.
Natsuki: Wow… That’s a hologram!
You don’t see them at all these days. The only one I’ve ever seen was at The Academy, an old relic from humanity’s peak.
On the hologram is displayed a detailed plan of what looks like the entire island.
Natsuki: Are you… Eden’s control unit?
ATRI: …
ATRI: I’m remembering something… Something about the role Yachigusa Nonko gave to me.
Natsuki: Really? What do you remember?
ATRI: Nonko created me to manage the systems on this island.
ATRI: An ecosystem this advanced cannot be maintained by a normal A.I.
Natsuki: So this was her last order…
I mumble to myself as I survey the holograms.
Natsuki: Wait a second. This part here, does this mean…?
The instant I realize the meaning of what I’m reading, my blood runs cold.
Natsuki: You’ll…
ATRI: Yes, I will die.
My grandmother didn’t need ATRI herself-just her brain.
ATRI is supposed to connect to the computer in this room, and meld with it.
However, her brain is soon to cease functioning. It won’t be enough for her just to plug herself into the island.
The capsule that I found ATRI in was a cold sleep chamber, capable of preventing a Humanoid’s lifespan winding down as long as it’s inside of it.
And here, there’s an almost identical device.
This won’t merely preserve her, though. It will meld ATRI’s mind with the island, and completely remove everything that makes her her.
In other words… It’s a machine made to kill ATRI.
Natsuki: So this is what you wanted for her? You evil old hag!
My shout reverberates through the hall.
Natsuki: ATRI, I am your master now! You don’t have to obey her orders!
ATRI: That is correct.
Her reply is swift and calm.
ATRI: However, there is one correction I must make.
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: According to the memory data I have just recovered, Yachigusa Nonko was never my master.
ATRI: This is not the final order that I have been seeking.
Natsuki: You… What?
Natsuki: So who is your master?
ATRI: I do not know.
My head is spinning with confusion. How can this possibly be? It wasn’t my grandmother that gave her her final order?
Everything I thought I knew, from the objective we’ve been striving for to the level of technology we’re dealing with, has completely changed.
Natsuki: I just don’t understand… What did we even come here for!?
As I hold my head in my hands, trying not to scream, the window in front of me changes.
ATRI has brought up a new screen. It’s a view of the sea.
ATRI: This is a live video.
Natsuki: …The ship! Is that Ryuuji?
ATRI: Audio analysis indicates the presence of loud, energetic, late-twentieth-century rock music.
ATRI: I detect no signs of intelligent life. Therefore it is logical to assume that Ryuuji is indeed on board.
Natsuki: He must have followed along to try and save us!
ATRI: Let’s go.
Natsuki: Shouldn’t we investigate all of the computer files here first?
ATRI: I must prioritize your wellbeing first.
ATRI takes me by the hand, and starts to lead me out.
ATRI: There it is. That is our ship.
ATRI: HEEEEEYYY!
ATRI: Grr, it seems like he’s not paying attention. Natsuki-san, hand me your stick.
She grabs the stick off of me suddenly.
She pulls off her dress, and wrap it around the end.
She waves her makeshift white flag energetically over her head.
ATRI: RYUUJI, YOU DUMMY!
ATRI: Natsuki-san, can you help me with this?
Natsuki: RYUUJIIIII!
ATRI: No, no, you have to add the “dummy” part too… Ah, it looks like he’s seen us. The ship’s turned this way.
She hands me her stick and puts her dress back on.
ATRI: It’s time to go.
Natsuki: Right…
ATRI: Please refrain from being too upset until we are safely back on the ship.
In accordance with the three laws of robotics that they are programmed with, Humanoids must prioritize the safety of human beings.
ATRI could never put her own gain ahead of my safety.
Natsuki: How are we going to get onto the ship?
The island is thronged as always by high waves, stopping anything coming near.
ATRI: …I have no idea.
Natsuki: …
Thankfully, I have put a least a little thought into how to conquer this problem.
Natsuki: We just have to float a little way out to sea, and wait for him to pick us up.
ATRI: Understood.
Natsuki: We’ll need to use the vines from that tree, as well as this stick.
ATRI: How will those help us float?
Natsuki: You’ll see. Just do what I tell you.
I pick off some of the tree’s thick, study vines, and wind them together into a rope.
I tie them around one end of the stick.
Natsuki: I need you to throw this, like a javelin, somewhere close to the ship.
ATRI: I’ll gave it a try.
ATRI: …Hup!
The stick files through the air, all the way to the ship’s port side.
Ryuuji seemingly catches on quickly, and ties the vine rope around a ring buoy.
I pull the rope back, bringing the ring along with it.
ATRI: Ohh, I see.
Natsuki: While you were sleeping, I though of a few ways to get off the island.
This one in particular was for the occasion that Ryuuji was able to help us.
I had other plans in case a fishing boat came by, or, in the worst case, we would have had to fashion a raft from the trees and vines here.
Natsuki: Okay, let’s go.
ATRI: Affirmative.
I put the ring around ATRI’s waist, take a deep breath, and hold her close to me.
Natsuki: Don’t let go of me, okay?
ATRI: Do not worry. I have already learned the proper procedure for this.
ATRI starts to run toward the shore, and leaps…
Natsuki: (I told her not to let go, dammit!)
I desperately flail around, just managing to grab a hold of her leg.
Natsuki: Mmnph!?
Natsuki: Hahh, hahh…
ATRI: I’m sorry, Natsuki-san. My hand slipped.
Natsuki: I thought I was going to die, you idiot!
ATRI: Yes, I am indeed a idiot piece of scrap. I apologize.
Ryuuji: Natsu! ATRI!
Ryuuji brings the ship closer, and throws us a rope.
He pulls up ATRI first, and the two then work together to lift me up onto the deck.
Natsuki: Phew, that was close…
Flopping over like freshly-fished salmon, I close my eyes and take a moment to appreciate the simple joy of being alive.
Ryuuji: Man, I’m so glad that you guys are safe… I thought you’d drowned!
Natsuki: Thanks. You’re a lifesaver, literally.
Ryuuji: No need to thank me! This is what best buds do, right, looking out for each other?
Seeing him simple at me with tears in his eyes, my bosom wells with happiness.
Not even a single person at The Academy would have cried for me like this.
While we sit on the deck recovering, the island floats off into the distance.
Natsuki: (We didn’t find any way of saving ATRI…)
ATRI: …Ah!
Natsuki: What’s wrong?
ATRI: I can’t find it…
She turns pale, frantically patting away at the pocket of dress.
ATRI: I don’t have my logbook.
Natsuki: Did you drop it on the island?
Maybe it was when she used her dress as a flag. The worst-case scenario would be that it came out in the water…
ATRI: I’d logged every single thing every day since you salvaged me…
Natsuki: Well, we’ll have to go and buy you a new one.
ATRI: Okay…
ATRI stares out dejectedly at the island as it retreats toward the horizon.
Natsuki: Oh, it’s morning…
Since returning from Eden, I’ve been struggling my way through more of my grandmother’s files.
I must have dropped off while reading them again. Well, it’s some sleep, at least.
I need to know exactly what Eden is, and the only way I’m going to find that out from what few files she left on the ship is to read them front to back.
Natsuki: (This might be entirely pointless, but I have to try…)_
No matter how much I search, I can’t find anything that seems to relate to ATRI’s last order. I don’t even know who her previous master was.
At that moment, I hear her rustle on the bed behind me.
ATRI: Good morning… Hahhh…
Natsuki: Looks like you’re a little more lively this morning.
ATRI: I’ll go and get breakfast ready… Mmn…?
She stands up and starts to wobble her way over to the kitchen.
Natsuki: ATRI? ATRI!?
ATRI: Owww… Sorry, I was still half-asleep.
Natsuki: You’ve not hurt, are you?
ATRI: My body is sturdier than a human’s. A fall like this isn’t enough to damage me.
Natsuki: That’s not an excuse to bumble around carelessly…
She sets about cooking as if nothing had happened.
I’ve never been one for big breakfasts. Before ATRI came into my life, I’d normally have just a piece of fruit, or even nothing at all.
These days, however, there’s always the smell of bacon wafting through the air in the morning to stimulate my appetite.
I clear all of the scattered papers off of the table.
Natsuki: …Huh?
Natsuki: ATRI, is something burning?
ATRI: Hmm… It does smell like it.
She quickly turns off the heat, taken by surprise.
After a moment, she comes over holding a plate.
Natsuki: Wow… What on earth happened?
ATRI: Hm…?
Atop the plate is an grim, ominous mass of burned… something.
Natsuki: It’s been a long time since you messed up a meal like this. What, did you try a recipe you haven’t cooked before?
ATRI: …
Natsuki: It’s not a big deal, I suppose. It’s kind of nostalgic, in a way.
It takes me back to that first day ATRI came to my ship.
Just like then, today’s menu is a bacon that resembles shards of burnt bark from a tree that’s been struck by lightning, and toast you could kill a man with.
I’m amazed that I manage to finish it, albeit only by forcing it down my throat with a constant stream of water.
ATRI: How was it?
Natsuki: It was… delicious. Umm, thanks.
ATRI: …
ATRI: This is the first time you’ve ever complimented my cooking. I’m normally so bad at it that I start to worry that I’m really some kind or military robot or something.
Natsuki: What are you talking about? I’ve complimented before, I’m sure I… Ah…
ATRI: Hm…?
Natsuki: Umm, it’s nothing. Forge it.
The conversation comes to an abrupt end, but an uneasy tension hangs in the air.
Feeling the need to say something, I try to ask something that I’ve been curious about.
Natsuki: So Yachigusa Nonko was never your master?
ATRI: Yachigusa Nonko… Who is that?
Natsuki: What? You said that you’d remember her. It’s this woman.
I show her a photograph form one of her files.
ATRI: Oh… Yes, that person was not my master.
Well, that’s a pretty firm answer.
A Humanoid never forgets its master. My grandmaster can’t have been ATRI’s.
Natsuki: Do you remember anything about her?
ATRI: Umm… Only that she was a horrible old bag.
Natsuki: Well, you’ve remembered the important things, I see.
This one detail being confirmed only leaves me with more questions.
Why was she in my grandmother’s storehouse?
What did she do before she ended up there?
And most obviously of all, who was her master?
Natsuki: (If she remember her master, maybe she’ll remember her final order too?)
It might just be the key we need to unlock the last parts of her memory.
Natsuki: Do you member anything at all about who your previous master was?
ATRI: …
A flash of sadness seems to pass across her face.
It sends a jolt of coldness through my body. It takes me back to that very first time we met.
When she was trying to kill herself…
ATRI: I think I may have been abandoned by my master.
Natsuki: Abandoned?
ATRI: Yes. I seem to remember my master disappearing.
Natsuki: Disappearing’ how? Was that when they gave you your final order?
ATRI: Excuse me for a second.
ATRI grabs my arm, and pulls me downward.
She holds my head closely against her chest.
Natsuki: H-Hang on a second…!
I flush red, but I can tell this is her trying to recreate a part of her lost memories. I can’t exactly stop her.
ATRI: They held me like this, and said something to me…
ATRI: But I have no recollection of what they said.
She lightly taps me on the head.
It seems like she’s still trying to remember something.
Natsuki: Do you know when this happened?
ATRI: All I can remember is that it was before I went to sleep under the sea… Ah!
ATRI: That’s right, it was around the time I first met you.
Natsuki: Really? Then what would make it eight years ago.
So she was abandoned by her master, and wanted to kill herself.
Did my grandmother take her in after that?
That cliff was close to her house, so it’s not beyond the realms of possibility.
But what happened to ATRI after that?
Natsuki: umm, ATRI, could you let go of me now?
ATRI: NO.
She squeezes me even more tightly against her chest.
ATRI: It’s been a long time since I held you like this. I don’t want to let you go.
Natsuki: …
It’s certainly not a request I feel like denying. I’m so sleep-deprived I could just doze off like this.
Natsuki: You’ve got club activities to go to, haven’t you?
Minamo stooped by yesterday to invite ATRI to some cooking club practice. Even summer vacation doesn’t stop Minamo.
ATRI: Oh yes.
Natsuki: Learn to make something nice, okay?
ATRI: Roger.
She reluctantly lets go of me.
We clean up our plates, and get ready to leave the ship. On the threshold, ATRI hesitates.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: What’s wrong?
ATRI: If I don’t have a notebook, I won’t be able to record any new recipes.
Natsuki: Oh yeah, you lost your last your last one. We’ll stop somewhere on the way to buy a new one.
ATRI: Thank you.
From the ship, we head to the market district.
The plan is to do a little shopping here, and then head to school to pick up our exam results.
Natsuki: I don’t really care about my own grades, but I’m curious to see how well you’ve done, ATRI.
ATRI: Hehehe, get ready for a big, high-performance surprise! Heh!
ATRI is as bright and lively as always in front of other people.
We pop inside the stationery shop.
ATRI: Hmm, which one should I pick?
She eagerly runs her eye over all of notebooks.
Natsuki: Why not just get the same kind we did before?
She’d decided on that one after some quite intense deliberation too.
ATRI: The same kind…?
She glances around the shop.
ATRI: I think I want a different one.
She begins to pick up each one in turn, and examine them closely.
Natsuki: I feel like this could take a while… I’m going to pop to the junk store, so come and meet me when you’ve decided.
ATRI: Okaaaay.
Handing her the money, I leave the store.
I’ve been hobbling around on my walking stick ever since I lost my prosthetic leg trying  to get to Eden.
I’ve never been more acutely aware of how lucky I am to have ATRI to help me walk than when I’m trying to stumble around on my own like this.
I slowly make my way to the junk shop deep in the back of the market.
Junk Shop Owner: Hey there lad. You came at just the right time, I was about to get in touch with you.
Natsuki: What about?
Junk Shop Owner: I’ve found someone who might wanna be buying that bot off you. Says he’s workin’ with some group who’s tryin’ to start up a new Humanoid business.
Junk Shop Owner: He’s got some backers givin’ him the fundin’ to research the tech, and he just needs a workin’ example. Said he doesn’t mind it being a recalled model. In fact, that’d be even better.
Natsuki: I thought I’d mentioned that I’m not going to be selling her.
I’d passed on the message to him when I made the decision to have ATRI stay with me.
Junk Shop Owner: Well, you might wanna at least have a chat, right?
Junk Shop Owner: She’s gonna be needin’ a reset soon, anyway.
A “reset”… Her current memories vanishing, in order words.
Junk Shop Owner: Judgin’ from when she was made, I’m surprised she hasn’t had one already.
Natsuki: Even so, I’m not selling her.
Junk Shop Owner: What use would it be, keeping her body around after she conks out?
Natsuki: Putting that aside, I wanted to ask you something. Why was ATRI’s particular model recalled anyway?
Junk Shop Owner: Umm, lemme see what the old files said…
He pulls out a folder of yellowing papers and flicks through them. It seems to be some kind of catalogue of all manner of Humanoids throughout the decades.
Junk Shop Owner: Huh, says here there was a fatal error in the programming. Caused some kinda accident.
Natsuki: An accident?
Junk Shop Owner: That’s all it says. No concrete details or anythin’.
I can imagine a few ways in which it might have happened. I have been thrown into sea by that piece of scrap multiple times.
If that kind of thing had happened at the height of the proliferation of Humanoids, it could have been huge new.
Natsuki: (Why was ATRI never recalled herself, though?)
PR disasters like recalls could ruin a manufacture’s business. They’d be so desperate to prevent further accidents that they’d take those robots back almost by force.
Did ATRI get spared simply because she was hidden in my grandmother’s storehouse?
Or maybe she was accompanying her on a research expedition out at sea.
My grandmother could have found her useful, and just refused to hand her back. No one would’ve been able to take that woman’s things without a fight.
Natsuki: (But she wasn’t ATRI’s master…)
Natsuki: When was the recall?
Junk Shop Owner: Hmm, thirty-one years ago, two years after model production started.
That’s long, long before I was born. The dates aren’t adding up here.
Junk Shop Owner: According’ to the specs, that model should have a lifespan of twenty-five years. She sure has lived a long time for a Humanoid.
Natsuki: Is it possible that she’s been reset once before, and had her memory modules swapped out?
Junk Shop Owner: What company’s gonna do that for a defective model?
In order to reuse a robot body that’s been reset, you’d need to have the whole cybernetic brain refreshed. It’s hard for anyone but the manufacture to do that.
Natsuki: (Even my grandmother probably couldn’t do that…)
She was just a marine geologist. As technologically-advanced as Eden is, I doubt she made the maintenance robots. There had to be someone on her team more experienced with robotics.
There’s a possibility that that someone could have modified ATRI, but unauthorized modification of a Humanoids is very, very illegal.
Natsuki: (If she had been reset, wouldn’t it logically work out that she’d still have several years left to live?)
You can’t believe how much I wish that was the truth.
Natsuki: Thanks for the information.
Junk Shop Owner: Give what I said a think, okay?
When I leave the store, ATRI is still nowhere to be seen.
Natsuki: Is she still choosing her notebook?
I turn onto the street where stationery shop is located to find her standing in the middle of the path.
Natsuki: Hey, ATRI. What are you standing there for? You’ll get in people’s way…
What…?
ATRI is stood frozen, seemingly halfway into a stride. It’s like she’s completely run out of power. People passing by stare at her in bemusement.
The light has completely faded from her eyes.
Natsuki: No way, you can’t…
Natsuki: Wake up! Store messing around like this! The calendar still hasn’t ran out yet!
A tiny red spark flicker up in her eyes.
ATRI: …Ah!
ATRI: Was just taking a little nap there… *schlurp*!
Slurping back a thick glob of drool, she glances around as if trying to work out where she is.
I clean her face off with a handkerchief.
Natsuki: You’ve been acting strange all morning. What’s wrong with you?
ATRI: I’m completely fine. Look, I’m feeling happy enough to dance! And a one, and a two…
She starts to twirl around in the middle of the street. It makes what just happened seem like some kind of uncanny pantomime.
Natsuki: Okay, okay, I get it. Stop that.
ATRI: Aww, I was just getting to the good part…
Natsuki: Did you get a notebook?
ATRI: Of course, look!
ATRI: I found one with the exactly right mix of functionality and price. I’m absolutely sure this is the perfect one!
She proudly flourishes in front of her… the exact same notebook as before.
ATRI: Have you done what you needed?
Natsuki: Yeah, I’m done.
ATRI: So, let’s go to school!
Natsuki: I need to stop by the library first. You go on ahead of me.
The town’s library was spared from the rising waves by being located high up on a hill, in the opposite direction to the school from here.
ATRI: Will you be okay on your own?
Natsuki: To be completely honest, I would prefer if you came with me.
ATRI: Ohh… you really are in spoiled baby mode today, aren’t you?
Natsuki: You’ve got club activities though, don’t you?
ATRI: Yes, and President Minamo gave me a real struggle session when I took those days off…
Natsuki: So you’ve got to go, right? Don’t worry about me.
ATRI: I’ll be extra sure to make it up to you later. I’ll be all over you as soon as I get home!
Natsuki: Can you not shout that kind of thing in public?
ATRI: Okay, Comrade ATRI, shipping out!
She give me an elaborate salute, and runs off toward the school.
Natsuki: Guess I should get going too…
I need to search for any kind of clues as to why ATRI’s model was recalled.
Ryuuji: Natsu!
Ryuuji comes toward me from the direction I’m walking.
Natsuki: Oh, hey.
Ryuuji: I was just about to stop by your place!
He’s grinning like an absolute fool. I wonder if he’s got some big salvage job for me.
Ryuuji: I’ve found it, just the thing you were talking about!
Natsuki: The substation!?
Ryuuji: The one and only!
Natsuki: Did you manage to connect the undersea cable to it?
Ryuuji: Nope, not yet. It’s not exactly my area of expertise, so I thought you’d wanna take a look first.
Natsuki: Understood. Let’s go.
A few days earlier, just after we’d returned from Eden…
Natsuki: Eden is a prototype of a floating city intended to support an entire self-sustaining ecosystem.
Natsuki: There’s a lot of things in my grandmother’s research that I initially thought were completely unrelated to that.
Natsuki: But I get the feeling that some of those might not be as unconnected as I thought.
Safely back on the ship, I set about explaining to Ryuuji something that’s been on my mind for the past couple of days.
Natsuki: For one thing, there’s the island’s electricity generation technology.
Natsuki: The whole island is acting like one huge hydroelectric power generator. I had a feeling about this when I saw how the waves around it move. They’re being sucked into a huge turbine.
That’s how it’s able to produce enough power to maintain all of the functions of the ecosystem.
Natsuki: And that undersea cable… It might just have been intended to link Eden to that mainland, and power the town.
Natsuki: My grandmother knew all about the sea rise could damage humanity’s infrastructure, so it’s only natural that she might come up with an idea like this.
Natsuki: Since that cable’s already connected, it’s likely that they experimented with using the prototype like that.
Natsuki: There’d have to be some kind of transformer substation to sync the power with the town’s grid. And they probably would have made sure to build it somewhere that wouldn’t end up underwater.
Natsuki: Is it possible that you could help me find somewhere around here like that?
With that, Ryuuji set about searching the town.
Ryuuji: So apparently some university worked on a project, and they built this. It’s just like you said.
The substation is near to the park on the top of the hill.
We’re accompanied by someone from the town hall, and the mayor-Minamo’s father.
Electrical infrastructure like this wouldn’t have been able to be built by private industries without local government permission, so naturally he knew all about it.
Natsuki: So basically, this was built so that the electricity coming from Eden could be wired up to the town grid.
Electricity has the unfortunate property of losing energy when transmitted over long distances. However, you can minimize the power loss by transmitting at a higher voltage.
Standard high-capacity lines carrying electricity from town to town run at voltages in the hundreds of thousands.
That voltage, of course, would fry any regular household appliance. It needs to be lowered considerably if it’s going to be of any practical use.
Which is where the transformer comes in.
Eden’s undersea power cable should be transmitting at a particularly high voltage, so the town would need a substation with a step-down transformer to handle the incoming energy.
As expected, this substation is attached to the cable.
The machinery is all still functioning.
Natsuki: I’m really surprised how quickly all of the adults started believing me about Eden. It seems such a ridiculous story at first hearing.
On the way back, Ryuuji lends me his shoulder and props me up.
Going through the series of events in my head, I can’t quite believe the mayor accepted a story based on the recollections of some children so easily.
The legendary phantom island being an experiment by Yachigusa Nonko, connected to the mainland by a cable that could power the whole town? Who would believe that?
Ryuuji: I guess that’s just the kinda weight “the young professor’s” words’ve got around here now, I guess.
Ryuuji: Since you brought light back to the school, everyone respects you, man.
Ryuuji: If they’re gonna believe anyone, it’ll be you.
Natsuki: …Well, if you say so.
Ryuuji: We’re gonna be real busy from now on, eh?
There’s a good reason for his grin afterall. We’ve just landed ourselves one massive salvage job.
We’re going to be working with an electricity company to pull up and refit the undersea cable.
There’s probably many more broken segments of the cable town there aside from the one we found, and we’ll be charged with finding them and pulling them up.
And when they’ve been refurbished, we’ll be helping to lay them again.
Ryuuji: It’s a good job you had the idea of leaving that buoy out there.
Natsuki: Well, about that…
Natsuki: Can we put back starting the salvage for a little while? I… I need to devote some time to ATRI.
Ryuuji’s grin instantly vanishes as he sees my bleak expression.
Ryuuji: …So it’s true that she’s gonna die?
Natsuki: Yes, it’s true. She won’t last more than a few days now…
Ryuuji: No way…
Natsuki: Before she dies, I want to help her fulfill her old master’s last wish. The problem is, she doesn’t remember what that was.
Natsuki: That’s why I went to Eden, as fruitless as that proved.
Ryuuji: Isn’t there anything we can do to save her?
Natsuki: NO. Humanoid lifespans are as hard-set as our own.
Extending their lives isn’t just illegal, but it may well be close to technically impossible.
Ryuuji: Man, and I thought we were finally buds…
Natsuki: I sorry that I didn’t tell you sooner.
Ryuuji: Yeah, I mean, dude…
He glares at me.
Ryuuji: But I guess we’d haven never ended up getting close like we did if I knew all along. I couldn’t have just messed about playing happy families without wanting to do something about it…
Natsuki: …
Ryuuji: You sure you’re okay, Natsu?
Eden when he’s as upset as I am, he’s still worried about me first…
Natsuki: I don’t know.
I can’t even imagine what the world will look like to me with her gone.
Ryuuji: You know, I’ve wanted to talk to you about this for while, but… Do you wanna start a proper company with me after we finish school?
Ryuuji: We’re gonna get a lot more salvage jobs coming in from now on, y’know? That sub alone’s not gonna cut it eventually. We’re gonna need diving equipment, and more manpower, and all kindsa stuff…
Ryuuji: We could even get Minamo and Ririka involved, it’s be like a whole team thing. You can be the captain.
Natsuki: Ryuuji…
I can’t believe it. I’d convinced myself that I was going to be left completely alone when ATRI left… It’s a proposal that sounds so amazing, so life-changing, that I can hardly control the emotion welling up in my chest.
Natsuki: …I’ll think about it.
Ryuuji: Aww, c’mon, dude, don’t blueball me! This is one of those moments where you’re supposed to say “yes,” and we start bro-hugging, and bro-crying, and stuff…
He laughs, and jabs my shoulder.
Natsuki: Thank you, Ryuuji, for everything. For hanging around with a pathetic guy like me…
Ryuuji: Pssh, don’t give me that bull. I’m always counting on you, y’know, man.
Hands around each other’s shoulders, we slowly make our way back into town.
We say out goodbyes in the market, and I head to the library to search for clues about ATRI.
I need to work out what happened to her in the time since she was made, over thirty years ago, and that moment eight years ago when we met.
One route to finding some kind of thread to follow might be to look into her model’s backstory.
“What am I?”
Natsuki: …
Unfortunately, I come up with nothing. Her model was such an obscure, Iow-volume one that I can’t find any concrete details about it.
The only thing I have to go on are manufacturer’s specifications and vague references elsewhere.
My slow hobble means it’s already evening by the time I arrive at school.
Just coming this far is exhausting.
Natsuki: Jeez, I hope ATRI’s still here…
She knows that I’m coming. She surely wouldn’t have gone anywhere.
Minamo: Ah, Natsu-kun!
Minamo comes out of the school just as I reach the gates.
Natsuki: Has cooking club already finished?
Minamo: Yeah, we’ve finished and cleared up, and we’ve just been hanging out since then.
Natsuki: Is ATRI inside?
Minamo: Huh? ATRI-chan didn’t come today, though?
Natsuki: Huh…?
Yoko: Heya, Natsuki-kun! Been a while.
Minamo: You haven’t seen ATRI-chan at all today, have you?
Yoko: Nope. Like, wasn’t she with you?
Natsuki: No, I had some places to be…
Natsuki: Hmm, well, I suppose I’ll get going, then.
Minamo: Ah, Hanako mentioned that you hadn’t picked up your test scores, right?
Natsuki: Oh yeah, I’ll grab those before I go, then.
Minamo: Okay, bye bye!
Yoko: See ya!
ATRI didn’t turn up?
I knew something was off with her. Did she freeze up somewhere again?
Catherine: Natsuki…
With Minamo a little distance away, Catherine shows her face.
Natsuki: Sorry, but I can’t stick around and chat. I just need the tests and I’ll be on my way.
I need to go searching for ATRI.
Catherine: ATRI’s gone home.
Natsuki: What…?
Catherine: I made her leave.
She thrusts my test out at me.
Catherine: Full marks. Well done.
Natsuki: Why did you make ATRI go home?
Did she pick up that she was acting oddly too?
Catherine: Take a look at her scores.
Natsuki: Oh…
Catherine: A big, fat zero.
Natsuki: That can’t be right. I struggle to believe she’d get anything below, say, eighty percent on a test like this.
Catherine: I thought the same, which is why I asked her what the hell she was playing at.
Catherine: She just looked at me, blankly…
Natsuki: I’m sure she wouldn’t have done something like this on purpose.
Catherine: Of course not. She might seem silly at times, but she always tries her hardest.
Catherine: There’s only one thing this can be. That girl, you know… She’s got a fatal error in her programming.
Natsuki: What the hell are you saying?
I raise my voice, seeing the flash of red in her eyes.
Catherine: The “Yamasake YHN Incident.”
Natsuki: The…  What?
Catherine: It happened thirty-one years ago. A Humanoid invaded an elementary school, and attacked a student.
Thirty-one years? That was exactly when ATRI’s model was recalled.
So the robot that caused that incident could have been the same type as her?
Natsuki: So you’re saying that she might have the same kind of flaw?
Catherine: No, not just that.
Catherine: Every single Humanoid of that model was reported recalled and scrapped.
Catherine: The one that caused the incident was, too. According to the reports, at least…
Natsuki: You mean…
Catherine: It ran away. It escaped before it could be disassembled.
Natsuki: And that robot… It’s ATRI?
Catherine: We can’t be sure, but you should know full well how dangerous she can be.
Natsuki: You mean, from that time she stopped you sitting my throat?
Catherine: …
Natsuki: I think we both know who the dangerous one is here.
If anyone ever found out that she’d tried to extort me at knifepoint, she’d lose her teaching license in an instant.
Catherine: …I can control myself. The same can’t be said for her.
Natsuki: She can. If she couldn’t, you wouldn’t have escaped her wrath in one piece.
ATRI might have given Catherine a pretty hard hit back then, but we can both tell she pulled her punches.
I can tell that whatever I say, it won’t be enough to convince her.
Robots don’t have a heart. They don’t have emotions to express to humans. If we’re unable to control or understand the logic that they’re operating on, how can we trust them?
No matter how close a relationship we may form with them, one day they may become our enemies.
People came to realize this eventually, and decided that they were an unnecessary threat to humanity’s future.
Catherine: If you want to make this all about what happened in the past, then so be it.
Catherine: I am a teacher, and as such I have a duty to protect my students. Don’t ever let her come near this school again.
The space where my leg would be weight heavily on me as I trudge home.
Natsuki: I really need a new prosthetic…
My thoughts are as heavy as my body.
I think and think, but I have no idea what I’ll say to ATRI when I get home.
I know that it’s pointless to worry about that, ultimately.
She’s a robot. She doesn’t have feelings to hurt.
But somehow I want her to be upset. I want the proof that that’s not the case.
And yet at the same time I realize how pathetic and hopeless it is to want that so much.
If she really did have emotions, how could she even prove so?
How does anyone prove that?
Natsuki: It’s only because she’s such a top quality model that she’s able to pretend so successfully.
“I’m high-preformance, hehe!”
That proud expression flashes across my mind.
Natsuki: ATRI…?
ATRI is standing alone on the coast.
She’s supposed to have gone back to the ship. Why would she be here?
She stands completely still, letting the waves lap at her feet.
Natsuki: Has she frozen up again? ATRI!
I try to rush over to her, but a surge of water takes my foot from underneath me.
ATRI: Are you all right, Natsuki-san?
ATRI just manages to catch me before I hit the ground.
Natsuki: I-I’m fine… Thanks.
She pulls me up, and takes my hand without a word.
Natsuki: What are you doing here?
ATRI: …
Natsuki: ATRI?
ATRI: I was waiting for you.
Natsuki: Why didn’t you just wait for me on the ship?
ATRI: …
She seems to freeze up again.
ATRI: …I anticipated that you may have trouble traversing this road alone, as just evidenced.
Her gaze seems ever so slightly downcast.
If she was a normal girl, I’d assume that meant she was hiding something. But who knows with her?
Natsuki: Well, thanks for waiting for me. You’re right, I could have had a lot of trouble here.
ATRI: So this is helpful?
Natsuki: Yeah, having you around completely changes everything.
ATRI: That is good to hear.
She is still staring down at the ground.
Natsuki: Okay, let’s go.
ATRI: Understood.
Her gait is almost mechanical. Whether it’s because she’s sad, or merely suppressing a learned behavior, there’s no sign of her normal proud trot.
I loved seeing her walk like that. I realize that now…
ATRI: …
Natsuki: …
I look for the words to say, but all that I can think of are questions.
ATRI: Umm…
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: Is it right for me to go to the cooking club tomorrow?
Natsuki: Do you want to go?
ATRI: Yes. It will improve my utility.
She looks up at me with that blank expression.
I know that Catherine must have ordered her not to come to school.
A robot cannot disobey an order. ATRI should know full well that going to school is impossible for her now.
Natsuki: We’ve got to search for your lost memories, haven’t we? Maybe it’s better if you skip the club.
ATRI: …I see. We do not have time for frivolities. We should prioritize our mission.
She says that since she doesn’t have a heart, she cannot be hurt.
But what does it even mean to have a heart?
She’s experienced being lost and abandoned, and the only conclusion that she has been able to come to is that she doesn’t have one.
Natsuki: (That can’t be true…)
ATRI: Hmm? What’s wrong, Natsuki-san?
I suddenly stand, and ATRI turns to stare at me.
We’re so close that our height difference means she has to crane her neck upward to look at me.
Natsuki: No matter what happens, remember that I love you.
ATRI: …Thank you. However, I cannot return that love.
Natsuki: I know that. You made yourself very clear on that matter, after all.
“Currently, I hate you.”
There’s no way I could misconstrue that.
ATRI: I simply simulated that reply. Should I possess emotions, I would have described my feelings for Natsuki-san in that moment as “hate.” It was merely an estimation.
ATRI: When I say that I cannot return your love, it is not through a choice of my own, I simply do not have emotions that I can give to others.
Natsuki: I don’t need you to return it. Think of it like the way robots are meant to serve humans, without getting anything back.
ATRI: …We are constructed to operate that way.
Natsuki: And humans come to feel the same way naturally about the people they love. At least, that’s what it seems like from my, umm, “research” so far.
ATRI: Oh… I’ve learned something.
Even at a moment like this, she can’t help but acquire new information and try to be even more useful. It’s so endearing that I can’t help but throw my arms around her.
ATRI: Ah…
Natsuki: I just want you to remember those word-“I love you.” Think of it as something akin to a matter of my pride.
ATRI: Hnngh… I’ve… learned something…
Even with her mouth partially muffled by my embrace, she earnestly give me that same affirmation.
Natsuki: Thank you.
ATRI: There’s something I’d like to ask of you when we get back.
Natsuki: Oh, what’s that?
ATRI: I’ll tell you later…
Natsuki: Huh, if you say so. That’s something to look forward to, at least.
I release her from my embrace, and we set off on our way home.
I wonder how many more times we’ll get to walk home together hand-in-hand like this.
Side-by-Side, with ATRI proudly kicking up her feet…
Catherine: Hahhh…
Ririka: No sighing!
Catherine: What the hell?
Ririka: I read it in a book that every time you sign it delays your marriage by three months.
Catherine: What kind of garbage are you reading? You should pick your books more carefully.
Ririka: You seem kinda down, Hana-chan. Is something up?
Catherine: …Jeez, I must really be losing my edge lately if even you’re worrying about me.
Catherine: (I’m not the one in the wrong here…)
Catherine: There’s a chance you’ll hurt one of my students. Don’t come to school again. That’s an order.
ATRI: Understood. I will not come to school again.
Catherine: …
ATRI: Goodbye.
Catherine: …I hope that’s enough.
Ririka: It’s probably not gonna be, right?
Catherine: What?
Ririka: Well, you’re making a face that tells me something’s gonna go wrong!
Ririka: That’s another three months delay, y’know?
Catherine: Shut up about that! Look, I’m going this for all of your sakes.
Ririka: Hmm…
Catherine: …Tsk, it’s not easy being a teacher, you know?
Ririka: Oh yeah, did you tell ATRI and everyone about those scary people?
Catherine: Who?
Ririka: Y’know, the people who came to the school that time?
Catherine: Oh… No, not yet.
Ririka: We’ve gotta tell them! They could be in danger!
Catherine: Wait a second, where are you going? You shouldn’t go running around outside this late!
Ririka: Gah… Okay, we’ll tell them tomorrow.
Catherine: …
ATRI: Do you have anything for me to do currently?
Natsuki: Not really. You can rest up if you want to.
ATRI: …
She’s asked me that multiple times since we got black.
As always, she’s itching to show off just how useful she can be.
I suppose that it’s kind of a way she can assert the validity of her existence.
Natsuki: Anyway, you said that you wanted to ask something?
I still haven’t heard whatever request she wanted to make earlier.
ATRI: Hmm, let’s clean up.
Ignoring my question entirely, she starts to fiddle with the papers on the table.
Natsuki: Hey, you don’t need to do that. Stop, you’ll mix up all of my research.
That would be particular bad, considering I’ve made a promise to the mayor to hand over the fruits of my labor to him.
ATRI: Don’t worry about that. I am high performance.
Natsuki: (She has gotten a lot better at housework lately, so I’m sure she wouldn’t completely ruin them…)
ATRI: Ah…
A great avalanche off files and books goes tumbling to the floor, landing in a heap at the feet of a completely frozen ATRI.
I blink.
ATRI: Owwww!
Natsuki: You. Piece. Of. Scrap!
I grab her in a headlock and grind my knuckles into her scalp.
ATRI: That hurts. My skull plate is sturdy enough to withhold any such punishment, but I must ask you to refrain from conduct that breaches the Robot Protection Statue-
Natsuki: That’s not what you should be saying at a time like this, is it? How about a “sorry”?ATRI: Eep, I’ve learned something. Sorry!
I let her go, and she crouches pathetically in front of me.
ATRI: Ughhh… I made Natsuki-san angry.
Natsuki: Dammit… You’ve messed up the files I’d just finished sorting.
It has taken me days to go through them and organize the contents.
ATRI: I’m sorry, Natsuki-san. As a military robot, I really am just destined to destroy…
Natsuki: You’re still able to hell jokes in this kind of situation?
I would have assumed jokes come from a place of emotion, but maybe she’s just programmed to use them as a way of soothing a situation.
ATRI: That was not a joke. It is a undeniable possibly derived from several potential pieces of evidence.
Natsuki: Well, let me deny the undeniable, then. You’re a 4th Generation Yamasaki Factories model Humanoid, serial number YHN-04B.
That’s what I’ve gleaned from the books in the library.
ATRI: Oh, I see. That’s a shame.
Natsuki: Are all the robots of your model as bad at housework as you are?
ATRI: No, I alone possess the special functionality of being utterly useless.
Natsuki: Jeez, how did you end up like that anyway?
ATRI: There are two possibilities. One: a fault in my manufacturing. Two: that I was converted into a household Humanoid from a military robot.
That’ll be option number one, then.
Natsuki: When you first made up that story about being some kind of weapon, you said that your master had taken you in when you were all alone, didn’t you?
ATRI: Oh? I don’t remember saying that, but I’m sure that was just a lie.
Natsuki: I thought so, but I’m starting to think that’s not the case.
Natsuki: You also said that you had trouble controlling your power, and you kept making mistakes, right?
That seemed to have convinced her that she was some kind of natural born killing machine.
ATRI: Well… That is probably true. The few fragments I can extract from my memory banks consist of me being scolded.
It seems like it was the truth that she was told off a lot for not being able to do housework.
ATRI: …
The light instantly drains from ATRI’s eyes.
She falls back on the bed, sitting with her head dropped.
Natsuki: What’s wrong?
ATRI: It seems that physical labor has exhausted my energy reserves.
Natsuki: You should lie down.
It’s almost time for bed anyway.
ATRI: …This is perfect timing.
ATRI: I would like to tell you what my request is now.
Natsuki: Ah, finally. Right, what do you want?
ATRI: Here.
ATRI hands me a certain pillow…
A pillow with a big, embroidered “YES” on it, facing toward her.
She peeks out about it, starting at me with her usual blank expression.
ATRI: Can we sleep together tonight? Oh, that’s the “YES” side. I suppose it must be all right.
Natsuki: Huh?
She reaches over and grabs hold of my waist.
Natsuki: Err, what am I supposed to do now?
ATRI: …
She silently but forcefully pulls me down next to her on the bed.
With her arms still wrapped around me, she lays her head down on my lap.
ATRI: Is it okay if I act like the spoiled one for a change?
Natsuki: Huh? Umm, okay…
ATRI: …
She looks up at me with a slight furrow in her brow.
She reaches for my hand, and pulls it over to her head.
ATRI: When I’m babying you, I always stroke your head. Please do the same for me.
Natsuki: O-Oh, sorry. I’m not, umm, used to doing this kind of thing.
I gently stroke her soft hair.
Natsuki: Is that good?
ATRI: …I don’t know. Did it make you happy when I did this to you?
Natsuki: Please, stop playing with my heart like this… Just say it feels good.
ATRI: …But I don’t know.
She squirms around, trying to find the ideal position.
ATRI: Please, stay like that until I fall asleep.
Natsuki: Understood, my little ATRI…
Natsuki: It’s unusual of you to ask for something form me like this, though.
ATRI: …I feel that if I go to sleep on my own, I won’t wake up again.
My very soul quakes.
Natsuki: It’s okay. If you don’t wake up on your own, I’ll make you get up.
ATRI: Please don’t hurt my skull plate again. I don’t like the sound.
Natsuki: Don’t worry, I’ll be gentle.
I continue stroking that soft, slivery hair. She closes her eyes, an expression of utter peace on her face, and falls asleep.
Holding her delicate form in my arms, I continue to dote on her even as she dozes.
Natsuki: You’re so cute…
I gently prod at her rosy cheeks and her little nose with my fingertips.
ATRI: Mmnph… Nngh…
She mumbles, but she doesn’t wake up.
I squeeze her cheek lightly between my fingertips.
ATRI: Nnngh…
She fidgets around in my lap.
As she wiggles, a small piece of paper sticks out from her dress pocket.
I instantly realize what it is.
Natsuki: That’s the test she got zero marks on…
Feeling that tiniest pang of shame, I pick the piece of paper out.
She answered every question.
But she didn’t get a single mark.
Natsuki: What the hell…?
Every answer is nonsense, just like Catherine said.
I know ATRI wouldn’t do this on purpose. I’m sure she gave her all on every questions.
She just… couldn’t remember.
Not a single thing.
Natsuki: She tried so hard… She learned so much…
Breakfast this morning. Her new notebook. So many other things…
She’s losing her memories faster and faster.
Her death is fast approaching.
…
ATRI: …
ATRI awakes.
She tries to move, but her body is heavy like iron. It’s been getting harder and harder to get up recently.
Natsuki: Zzz… Zzz…
She looks very at Natsuki-san sleeping beside her.
ATRI: …
Last night, she asked for Natsuki-san to hold her as she slept.
He hasn’t been sleeping together with her at all recently.
She felt the need to show her usefulness. Otherwise, she’d be scrapped.
ATRI is a robot build to serve humanity. A robot that is of no help is nothing but scrap.
ATRI: He’s still sleep.
She glances around.
It appears as though Natsuki-san worked through the night researching again.
He must have waited until she entered sleep mode before getting up to work again.
She knows this was all for her sake.
ATRI: I have to give every part of me to aid you. Otherwise, I have no reason to exist.
Natsuki: Ngh… Hhnnnghh!?
He suddenly begins to writhe in agony.
What remains of his leg twitches and jerks.
He reaches out for help, reaching for a hand. Just like that day…
ATRI takes his hand.
A peace seems to settle over him again.
Natsuki: Hahh, hahh… Zzz…
ATRI: His breathing has returned to normal.
Seeing his legs settle, she lets go of his hand.
According to the clock, it’s almost eleven in the morning.
She realizes jus how late it’s become. Her functions really are starting to break down.
ATRI: Natsuki-san, wake up. It’s almost lunchtime. Natsuki-san…
Natsuki: Mmn… Zzz…
ATRI: …
She quickly gives up on waking him.
ATRI: Peaceful sleep it difficult for him. I estimate that he hardly slept due to his work.
ATRI: I should leave him to sleep.
ATRI stands up from the bed.
She would normally try to make some kind of breakfast now, but she realizes that she has forgotten how.
She tries to check her log, but all it records is what happened yesterday. The rest of the pages are blank.
ATRI: …
She remembers that she once knew how to cook, but not the process. Those memories have long degraded.
Along with most of her others.
A great many memories of even the time since Natsuki-salvaged her up from the bottom of the sea.
She may even have forgotten that fact that she has forgotten.
Some of those forgotten memories may even have been the most precious.
ATRI: Natsuki-san is working for my sake, and yet I can do nothing for him.
She can’t even make him food.
What can she do?
ATRI: I just don’t know.
She wants help.
ATRI: Minamo…
She always used to help. She remembers her helping her work out all kinds of things.
ATRI throws on her dress.
Before she leaves, she stops before the calendar.
She crosses off another day.
ATRI: …
She gazes expressionlessly at the remaining blank days, and leaves the ship.
Yoko: Aww, is ATRIcchi not coming in again today?
Yoko: It’s kinda boring without her, y’know?
Minamo: Natsu-kun’s busy. He and Ryuu-chan are working on some kind of job with my dad.
Minamo: I think ATRI-chan’s probably helping both of them out.
Yoko: Must be real nice for ATRIchi, getting to hang out with Natsuki-kun all the time. They, like, live together, don’t they?
Minamo: Hehe, I was worried about them at first, but they seem to be getting along like a house on fire these days.
Yoko: Grr…
Minamo: Wh-What’s that look for?
Yoko: So you’re, like, the mayor’s daughter, and you’re got connections with this super awesome guy who’s an absolute genius even though he’s our age… You’ve, like, made it for life!
Minamo: N-No way, Natsu-kun’s got a bright future for sure, but my dad and I, well…
Yoko: Are you really okay with ATRIchi taking your man, though? You two would be a perfect fit.
Minamo: Wh-What are you talking about, all of a sudden? It’s not like I, umm…
Yoko: Aww, c’mon, be honest. You should at least try confessing to him once. Take it from a romance pro, you don’t wanna put it off forever and never end up doing it.
Minamo: I don’t need to do that…
Catherine: …
Yoko: Heya, Catherine!
Minamo: Oh, hello, Hanako.
Catherine: Hey. You doing club stuff? Great, keep it up.
Yoko: …She’s not gonna tell you off for calling her that?
Minamo: That’s odd…
Catherine: Where’s Ririka?
Minamo: She was playing over there until just now…
Yoko: She seemed pretty bummed that they weren’t taking her out salvaging.
Catherine: …She’s better off not going to that ship any more.
Minamo: Oh? Why not?
Catherine: …
Yoko: There’s something going on with her. She’s been weird for a few days now…
Minamo: Yeah…
Catherine: Until I can be sure that ATRI isn’t dangerous, I can’t let the children near her.
Catherine: I’m not in the wrong here…
There’s a sudden rush of little footsteps.
Ririka: Ah, Hana-chan!
Catherine: Hey, Ririka, no running in the corridors!
Ririka: Oops, sorry! I’m always forgetting that!
Catherine: Where are you in such a hurry to get to?
Ririka: Well, I’m gonna go and see ATRI!
Catherine: Not a change. I told you, you’re banned from seeing her for a while.
Ririka: Why, though?
Catherine: It might be dangerous being around that girl.
Ririka: Yeah, it might be!
Ririka: That’s why we’ve gotta go and tell her about those scary guys who were after her!
Catherine: …
Catherine: (I really should have told Natsuki about Yasuda…)
Catherine: (Maybe a part of me is hoping that he actually will take ATRI away…)
Ririka: What’s wrong, Hana-chan? Does your tummy hurt?
Catherine: Kinda, yeah.
Ririka: Oh no! We should take you to the nurse’s room!
Catherine: (Anyone who brought in a defective, dangerous robot like that could earn a pretty big reward from the government.)
Catherine: (That’s probably Yasuda’s objective.)
Catherine: (Somehow he knew about Yachigusa Nonko’s inheritance, and used me to pull up ATRI.)
Catherine: (No matter how dangerous ATRI might be, I’m not letting him get his hands on her.)
Catherine: …I’m going to go and tell her.
Ririka: Great, then I’ll come too!
Catherine: No, you’re staying here.
Ririka: Aww, but I wanna go and play with ATRI!
Someone’s Voice: Hmm, what’s this? It doesn’t appear as if our little robot friends is here…
Catherine: You-!?
Yasuda: Good lord, it’s an effort to get into this school. I though being here may help me catch her, but alas…
Catherine: Why are you here? I’m afraid I’m gonna have to ask you to leave…
Yasude: Why, I’ve just come to pick someone up. A certain little runaway robot.
Ririka: Hana-chan…
Yasuda: So then, where is she?
Catherine: Unfortunately for you, it’s summer vacation. It’s not my job to know where every single one of my students is.
Yasuda: Well, that is vexing… So I assume waiting here for a while would be fruitless?
Catherine: Right, so you’d best get out of here. Otherwise, I’m calling the police.
Minamo: What’s going on out here?
Yoko: Who’s that guy?
Yasuda: …
Catherine: Get back in the classroom!
Minamo: O-Okay!
Ririka: Ah…!
Catherine: Wait, Ririka! Where are you going?
Ririka: I’ve gotta tell ATRI she’s in danger!
Cathreine: Stop, Ririka!
Yasuda: Excellent, go and fetch the robot for me, little one.
Yasuda: I shall take the liberty of waiting here with everyone.
“Don’t come to school again. That’s an order.
Catherine’s voice plays over and over in the back of ATRI’s mind.
She must obey orders.
ATRI: I must not go to school.
But still she wants to talk to Minamo.
ATRI: …
Her thought process freeze up, and she cannot take another step forward.
Her mind shackles her body with that command.
As much as she tries to resist, she cannot.
ATRI: This was how I was built to be…
In that case, why does she not simply act according to her programming?
Why does she feel the need to fight back against those chains?
ATRI: I don’t understand… I don’t understand… I don’t understand…
Ririka: Heeeeeyyyy!
Looking up, she sees Ririka running toward her.
Ririka: ATRIIIIIIIII!
ATRI: Ririka…
ATRI flicks a switch inside her head. Her simulation engine engages and begins to process all of her accumulated emotional data.
ATRI: Are you okay, Ririka? What’s got you in such a panic?
Ririka: Hahh, hahh, ATRI, this is bad!
Ririka: A real scary guy came to school! He’s , hahh, hahh…  He’s after you!
ATRI: Me?
Ririka: Yeah!
ATRI: What’s happening at the school now?
Ririka: I dunno. I think everyone’s still there… He said he was gonna wait for you!
ATRI: And is Minamo there too?
Ririka: And Hana-chan! The guy might have taken her hostage or something… What are we gonna do!?
ATRI: Did he order me to come to the school?
Ririka: Yeah!
Ririka: Ah, but you can’t, no! It’s dangerous! That’s why I came to warn you!
“You can’t!”… A warning, not an order.
This person, however, is ordering me to come.
Like another set of chains entwining with Catherine’s, the two conflicting commands twist inside her mind.
This, however, is only momentary. Conflicting orders are common. Her brain is able to automatically choose which to prioritize.
Catherine is an authority figure at school, and thus commands from her relating to the school automatically carry more weight.
It is unclear what authority the order man possesses. If he wishes to meet ATRI, it does not necessarily have to be at the school.
Thus, Catherine’s order should be prioritized… Should.
As well as the two conflicting orders, a third command forces its way into ATRI’s programming.
ATRI: Minamo and the others may be in danger. I have to save them.
Ririka: No way! I’m telling you, it’s dangerous!
ATRI: Just leave this to me! I might not look like it, but I’m military killing machine!
Ririka: What!? Seriously!?
ATRI: Anyone who’s gonna hurt my friends is gonna get a Super Double Rocket Punch in the guts! Hmph!
Ririka: Ooooh!
I am surrounded by endless darkness.
Not a single ray of light illuminates my path as I crawl through the gloom, praying for an exit that may not even exist.
But as hard as I try, I cannot move.
My leg is crushed beneath a dreadful weight, completely trapped.
Ah… Here is it. The same old dream.
There’s nothing reassuring about that fact, however. The usual terror is welling up in my heart.
I can feel the same pain and loneliness about to envelop me.
Natsuki: Aaarrrghhh?
I scream out in agony as my leg buckles under the horrendous dark mass.
Natsuki: Please, save me… Anyone… Mom!
I reach out desperately.
Natsuki: It hurts! My leg, it hurts!
But no one is there to take my hand.
I know that it’s futile. As long as I remain in this dream, this pain will continue forever.
Natsuki: Please, anyone, save me…!
My hand gropes vainly at the air.
The day that I lost my leg, I didn’t yet know that I had already lost my mother.
It was the very same night that learned that horrible fact, lying in my hospital bed, that I first experienced the phantom pain.
I was the only survivor from the tunnel. They told me it was a miracle. A few more hours trapped, and I would have died.
I have no recollection of what happened, but they told me that before help arrived, I managed to crawl out of the car by myself and drag myself to safety.
But how? How did I escape that pain?
My leg was pinned underneath that weight, and just moving caused my body to convulse with agony.
All I was able to do was reach out my hand, and weep.
Natsuki: Someone, help me!
I felt someone grab hold of me.
A warm, familiar hand.
My mother?
No…
Natsuki: (ATRI…)
It was ATRI’s hand.
The moment I realize this, the pain washes away…
…
…
…
…
Waking from sleep like I’m floating up from the sea’s depths into the brilliant blue, I open my eyes and gaze at my own outstretched hand.
Natsuki: ATRI…?
There is no ATRI there to take my hand now.
The pain rushes back into my leg immediately.
Natsuki: Arrrghhh!?
I writhe atop the bed, the space where my leg should be throbbing with agony.
Natsuki: Hnnngh… Hahh, hahhh…
Cold sweat stains the sheets. I grip them with such desperate force I almost feel them rip.
It’s an intense agony I’ve not felt in so long, since ATRI arrived.
I thought I might never feel it again.
Natsuki: ATRI… Please, don’t leave me…!
I fall with a crash onto the floor, and yet the pain in the leg that isn’t there makes the pain elsewhere feel like nothing.
I thrash desperately about atop the files that ATRI spilled last night, waiting for the torment to pass.
Natsuki: Hahh, hahh, hah…
After an eternity, the pain gradually ebbs away.
Natsuki: What does my body think it’s doing? ATRI’s not gone get…
I mutter bitterly to myself through ragged breaths.
I slowly sit up.
The room is a mess of scattered papers and abandoned plates.
Natsuki: I’m supposed to be handing this research over to the mayor…
Everything I’ve been working on is close to ruined.
Since I came back to this town all alone, I’ve met so many people who have given me place in this community.
Compared to my life at The Academy, this truly feels like happiness.
And yet, still the phantom pain has returned.
Is losing ATRI really so painful? So much so that I might not be able to recover?
Natsuki: Where is she?
She should be sleeping alongside me, but she must have woken up first. Maybe she went out to buy food?
But if she did that, she might have frozen up somewhere on the way.
Her body is deteriorating day by day.
Natsuki: …
Last night, I read a book that contained some information on ATRI’s model type.
After days of searching, I found it in the library archives.
The 4th Generation Yamasaki Industries Humanoid Model, YHN-04B.
It was an advanced model that the mid-range maker Yamasaki Industries was staking its company fortunes on.
It was designed by a Professor Konishi Kyuusaku.
It’s a name I have a vague recollection of from my time studying the Academy.
But all I remember is the name, and one fact about his reputation.
Natsuki: They said he broke a taboo…
He was described as having been arrested for unethical Humanoid research, but the details of whatever he did weren’t something we were privy to.
It’s safe to assume that ATRI’s model being recalled had something to do with that, and it brought an end to his research.
I suppose that’s why he was only important enough to the history of robotics to be nothing but a footnote in my mind.
Natsuki: So does ATRI possess some kind of unusual design based on his research that allows her to do things other Humanoids can’t?
I can imagine a mid-range manufacturer like Yamasaki trying to make it big by striking a deal with the devil and producing something unique.
All of ATRI’s strange behaviors and silly ideas might just be the evidence of that, and show just what they were aiming for.
After all, that level of cuteness could be a powerful tool for allowing a Humanoid to be accepted by human society.
It seems like the model was initially a big hit on release.
But then, after the accident, it was recalled.
The book didn’t mention any details of the event, apart from that a robot suddenly attacked and injured a human.
And Catherine seems to think ATRI is the very robot in question…
Natsuki: How the hell could that old drunkard jump to that conclusion? ATRI wouldn’t do that.
I pull myself up onto the bed.
The test results I look from her are still sitting on the table.
I stare over at the calendar.
There’s a fresh cross I haven’t seen before. She must have marked it off earlier.
Five days.
That’s all the time she has left.
Natsuki: …God dammit!
I swing my stick wildly, whipping up a tornado of papers across the ruined room.
My leg slips from under me, and I go crashing to the floor.
My body quakes with pain, and my heart feels close to bursting.
Natsuki: Please, ATRI, don’t leave me…!
Hot tears flood my cheeks.
If I cannot live together with ATRI, maybe I should resign myself to death once more.
The same way that I felt no hope that day when I left The Academy, I feel no hope now…
“Currently, I hate you.”
Natsuki: …She’ll hate me again.
There’s nothing ATRI hates more than me giving up on the future.
Natsuki: But… I just don’t have strength to live on, ATRI…
All I can do is lie on the floor as miserable, wretched tears roll down my cheeks.
When I finally have the strength, I paw at the papers on the floor in an attempt to clear them up.
Among them are files I haven’t even had the chance to look through yet.
Natsuki: …Huh?
One of them is an envelope, containing some kind of notebook.
An ordinary, run-of-the-mill notebook.
Maybe it has some small tidbits I can learn in it?
I take it out, and open it up.
Small, neat letters are scribbled all across every page.
Natsuki: This isn’t my grandmother’s handwriting…
It’s not her messy scrawl. It’s perfectly-spaced, rigidly-defined characters.
Their contents are also extremely methodical, or even mechanical. It’s exactly like one other thing I’ve read before.
Natsuki: It’s ATRI’s log…
A log from long ago.
I start to read back, from the very last entry…
08/22/xx
Entering Sleep Mode. “You’ll be safe here. No other brats are going to find you. Just have a nice dream, and a good rest.” I am unable to ascertain the exact import of “nice.” Entering sleep mode. When going to sleep, humans say ‘goodnight.’ Goodnight.
08/21/xx
Nonko gave me a duty. I am Eden’s central management system. I am part of a machine that will save the world. However, it is not time yet. I will be entering sleep mode until Eden is complete. While in the capsule, my body will not degrade. I will wait there to be awoken.
08/14/xx
Nonko said something. “In the end, it’s all my fault.” I do not understand why she believes this.
08/12/xx
Nonko came over to me while I was looking at the sea. She told me that I should come home. If I was found outside I would be captured and disassembled. It is dangerous to go outside.
08/08/xx
A boy spoke to me by the sea. He was in a wheelchair. He was missing his right leg.
I cannot destroy myself.
The boy refused to help me. He did not want to become a criminal. I accepted this as a logical position. He argued; “If you’re not prepared to jump, that means you must have something you still want to do in this world.” I believe this to be reasonable, but I am unable to process the meaning of “want.” The boy wished to commit suicide.
I stopped him. Why did I do this?
In accordance with the three laws of robotics, I must always prioritize preserving human life over all else.
However, I can ascertain that I look this action for a different reason. It was commanded to by my master. If I was to allow him to commit suicide, I would be ignoring my master’s command. I cannot allow this contradiction. Perhaps I “wanted” to do this. The boy began to cry, and I comforted him.
I copied a technique used by my master. The boy stopped crying.
The boy said he would go to school.
He said; “I have to save the world.” I replied;
“Does the world include me?”
I want to know the meaning of “happiness.”
If I learn this, my master can be saved. Then I will be saved too. I have the suspicion that this boy may be my new master. However, I cannot be sure.
06/02/xx
“I want to talk to you, so wait for me in the place.” My master gave me that command. I waited, but she did not come.
This was because she was dead. In Humanoid terms, she had ceased to function.
Without my master, I have no purpose. Without a purpose, my existence is unnecessary. I am a defective model, created by mistake. I thus determine that it would be best for me to be destroyed.
05/29/xx
I am avoiding human contact. I will be disassembled if I am discovered. I do not understand why this is undesirable. My assessment is that it would be preferable for me to be destroyed.
05/24/xx
My master’s car did not arrive. I traced the path it should have taken.
A tunnel had collapsed.
I entered it in order to perform rescue activities. I discovered several people whose bodily functions had already ceased.
Natsuki: Is this… that accident?
The time period fits. I can’t think of any other tunnel collapses.
ATRI was there?
It says she tried to rescue people.
Natsuki: Was it really ATRI that look my hand…?
With a deep throb of emotion and tribulation welling in my chest at the absurdity of all, I come to a sudden realization.
The log continues.
05/24/xx
My master’s car did not arrive. I traced the path it should have taken.
A tunnel had collapsed.
I entered it in order to perform rescue activities. I discovered several people whose bodily functions had already ceased.
My master was still alive. However, she was seriously injured. She said something to me, but it was full of contradictions. I was unable to understand. I believe she was confused.
She left me an order, and died.
There was still a living human nearby, so I rescued him.
The log describes her master’s death.
Absolutely dispassionately, without the slightest emotion.
Without a single hint of pain.
Whether affection or hatred, ATRI should have felt some kind of feeling toward her master.
Their death should have been the most devastating thing she could have possibly experienced.
Natsuki: …
I suppose she doesn’t have a heart after all.
Natsuki: …Huh? What are these marks?
There’s something wrong with the letters on this page.
I turn to the next.
Natsuki: There’s some here too… And there…
It’s not much, but the writing is a little blurred in places…
Ririka: Heyyyyyy! Natsukiiiiiiiiiii!
Natsuki: Ririka?
I hear her calling to me from outside.
Ririka: Natsukiiiiiiii! Heeeeeeeelp!
Natsuki: What’s going on?
Ririka: Ah, there you are!
She’s as loud and energetic as always, but now she’s desperately welling up with tears.
Natsuki: What’s wrong? Did something happen?
Ririka: This scary guy came to school, right, and he told ATRI that she had to come and see him!
Natsuki: A scary guy?
Ririka: He’s been after ATRI for a while now…
Someone: …
Is it that man from before?
It seemed like he was watching ATRI from the shadows.
Natsuki: ATRI’s not here right now. I’m not sure where she’s gone to.
She can’t have gone to school. Catherine ordered her not to, and she couldn’t disobey that.
Ririka: Well, I ran into her, and I told her it was dangerous to go to the school, but she went anyway.
Ririka: She’s a fighting robot though, isn’t she? I’m sure she can beat him!
Natsuki: …That dumb toaster!
I grab my stick from the cabin.
I look around for anything that might pass for a weapon too, but all I can find is a small kitchen knife.
Even if I look this with me, I double I’d have the balls to stab anyone with it. In the worst case scenario, it could even end up being used against me.
Natsuki: (I guess I’m going bare-handed.)
Turning away, however, I notice something left on the floor.
Natsuki: ATRI’s shoe…
One of her beaten-up old loafers is lying discarded on the floor.
I suppose these are just another fragment of her memories that she’s long forgotten…
OPTION
Pick up the shoe. (Happy End)              Leave the shoe. (Bad End)
I pick it up, and rush out of the ship.        Forgotten, like everything she’s experienced
with me. There’s no point in worrying about
something like this.
I ignore it, and rush out of the ship.
Natsuki: I want you to run into town and tell Ryuuji what’s going on. He’ll either be at home or at the salvage site.
I want to inform the police, but with Minamo and the others seemingly being taken as hostages we have to act carefully here.
If Ryuuji can get some locals to help out, we might be able to prevent this becoming a huge scene.
Ririka: What are you gonna do?
Natsuki: I’m going to the school.
Ririka: O-Okay!
Ririka sprints off toward the town.
Yasuda: So, is this everyone at the school at this moment?
Catherine: Yeah…
Minamo: Hanako…
Catherine: It’s okay. Just stay back.
Yoko: Who the hell are you!? Y’know the police are gonna totally be all over you for this, right?
Yasuda: Very true. And that is exactly why I’ll be having you all stay here and accompany me as hostages.
Yasuda: That said, the police don’t hole much sway this far away from the mainland. I’ve already got this all planned out, don’t you worry.
Catherine: What are you planning here?
Yasuda: Well, what do you expect? I’m going to clean up after your failure, of course.
Catherine: So, you’re planning to capture her, and claim the bounty on her?
Yasuda: The bounty? Well, perhaps…
Catherine: (What else would there be other than the bounty…? Humanoid trafficking? If he sold her on the black market, it’s be a lot more difficult for him to be traced. That must be what he’s aiming for.)
Yoko: Psst… Don’t you think the three of us could take this guy out?
Minamo: No way, it’s too dangerous…
Catherine: …
Yasuda: Now now, I would advise you not to try anything silly. I would loathe to have to do something regrettable.
Yoko: What’s with that guy’s hand? Is it some kinda machine?
Catherine: Just be quiet, girls. If you don’t do anything stupid, he won’t hurt us.
Yasuda: Exactly.
Yasuda: Now, I do ever so hope that little brat has managed to find our friend.
Catherine: Hate to break it to you, but ATRI’s not gonna come here.
Yasuda: Hmm, and why is that?
Cathreine: I ordered her not to come anywhere near the school. A certain someone did warn me that she was dangerous, after all.
Yasuda: My, isn’t that troublesome…
Yoko: So that’s why ATRIchi hasn’t been coming to cooking club? Why would she tell her that, though?
Minamo: No idea…
Catherine: I’m well aware of how capable she is of harming humans.
Yasuda: Indeed, she hurt people, and ran away to escape being scrapped. We can’t be letting a dangerous robot like that run around, can we now?
Yasuda: I am simply a concerned citizen, here to fix a defective machine.
Catherine: It doesn’t matter how long you keep us here, she isn’t coming. Get that? So piss off.
Yasuda: …
Yoko: Huh? Isn’t that ATRIcchi?
Minamo: It is!
Catherine: What!?
ATRI: …
Catherine: Why are you here!? I gave you an order!
Yasuda: There you are…
Minamo: No, ATRI-chan, run!
Yasuda: Shut up!
Minamo: Hurk!?
Yoko: Minamo!?
Catherine: You dare touch my students!?
Yasuda: …My apologies. My temper got the better of me there. I have been waiting thirty years for this moment…
Yasuda: Now, come up here and let’s have a chat, YHN-04B-009…
ATRI: …
Minamo: NO, ATRI-chan, run!
Minamo’s voice comes calling down from one of the school’s windows.
It’s immediately followed by the dull thud of a punch, and a strangled, caught and amplified by ATRI’s high-performance audio sensors.
ATRI: …
Looking up, she sees an unknown figure standing in the window.
ATRI: So he is the person calling me.
She pulls the schools boat over to her, and in her mind an alert sounds.
“You may not enter the school.
Catherine’s order attempts to restrain her, but that thud and scream tells her that human life may be in danger.
And above all, knowing what is happening in that classroom, she feels the need to proceed regardless of if it means disobeying an order.
She hears the man call out for her to come up.
ATRI: I will be there shortly.
As she hurries through the corridors, she notices her footsteps making a different sound than normal.
ATRI: Huh…?
One of her feet is bare.
She has the feeling she’s forgetting something. But what?
She does remember that it’s something very important to her…
ATRI: …
She cannot remember.
She presses on.
She opens the door.
In the classroom are Minamo, the order girl from the cooking club, and Catherine.
Minamo is lying with her face in her hands, on top of the knees of the other girl.
She appears hurt, but ATRI judges it to not be a serious injury.
ATRI: Huh? Where is that-
For a split second she senses a presence just outside of her field of view. Then suddenly, a shock runs through her skull.
ATRI goes sprawling across the floor, and slams against the wall.
Yoko: Ahhhhhh!
Catherine: ATRI!
Yasuda: Hmph…
The man had been hiding behind the door, gripping a wooden mop that he had used to crack her across the head.
ATRI: Owww!
Realizing that she’s in front of everyone, ATRI switches on her emotional simulation faculties.
ATRI: Tsk, now that smarts! It’s rude, hitting people from behind like that!
She forces herself unsteadily up onto her feet.
Her head is spinning. The blow must have shaken her cyberbrain.
Catherine: Stop this violence at once!
Yasuda: I’m merely a weak and fragile human being, I’m just taking care of it before it attacks me.
Yasuda: Alas, it doesn’t seem like I did much damage. Its skull plate is made of carbon fiber, after all.
Indeed, the plate itself is extremely durable.
However, it can’t completely absorb all shock damage. When the force of a blow is transferred to a Humanoid’s comparatively fragile parts: such as joins, it could lead to critical damage.
ATRI: So you’re the one who has a bone to pick with me?
Yasuda: It’s been a long time, YHN-04B-009.
ATRI: Umm, I’m afraid I don’t remember you at all. My memory has been really bad lately…
Yasuda: Ah, so your memory banks have begun to degrade… You are long past your service life, so that’s only natural.
Catherine: Why did you come here, ATRI!? I commanded you not to come to school!
ATRI: You all seemed to be in danger, so I had to prioritize saving everyone.
Yasuda: Shut the hell up! You just wanted to break another order!
ATRI: Err?
Yasuda: You’re always causing mayhem wherever you go! You’re a defective little piece of scrap!
Yasuda: And scrap needs to be destroyed!
Yasuda rains a wild flurry of blows down on ATRI’s head.
The mop is hard and sturdy, and each hit reverberates through her skull.
Strikes slam against her face, clanging against her plating from all angles.
Blow after blow after blow crashes down.
ATRI raises her arms to intercept them.
Her body may be less fragile than any human’s, but this amount of punishment is beyond her operating limits.
The joints of her arms start to creak and crack.
Yasuda: Hahh, hahh, hahh… You think I’m just going to let you sit there and take it!?
Yasuda thrusts his left fist into ATRI’s face.
The blow is even harder and weightier than the mop-it’s cybernetic.
ATRI is flung backward, rolling and slamming her head into the wall.
Catherine runs over and pulls her up from the ground.
Catherine: ATRI, are you okay!?
ATRI: Owww… Don’t worry about me, I’m absolutely fine.
She smiles, masking the intense agony rushing through her body.
ATRI’s body is sturdy, but only enough to be able to survive the kind of common accidents she might face in everyone life.
Of course, some degree of violence from a Humanoid’s master is anticipated in their design.
But there’s only so much you can do to make a robot durable within a functional construction budget.
Once you get above a certain threshold of harsh treatment, it ceases to be the maker’s concern. Then, the responsibility falls completely on the owner.
Violence against robots is supposed to be a crime, after all.
So as sturdy as a Humanoid might be, it’s not impossible for a human with a weapon with a modicum of strength to cause them some serious damage.
Someone with a cybernetic limb would easily be powerful enough to cripple a robot.
Catherine: You just want the reward for bringing her in, don’t you, Yasuda? So why do you need to hurt her like this!?
ATRI: Violence against Humanoids contravenes the Robot Protection Statute, carrying a potential penalty of a large fine and up to three years imprisonment…
Yasuda: Pfft, it’s going to be inoperative soon anyway. I’ll just tell them that I found it this way.
Yasuda: How many days do you have left?
ATRI: Five.
Catherine: What…?
Minamo: ATRI-chan…?
Yasuda: See, it’s going to be useless junk in less than a week anyway. What’s the harm in scrapping it a little early? Think of it as me doing you all a service.
Catherine: If you do that, do you really think they’ll give you any kind of compensation!?
Yasuda: Ohh, I see what’d going here… You appear to be under the misapprehension that I am in this for some kind of cash reward.
Catherine: You’re…not? Then why did you use me to get to her?
Yasuda: Oh, you played your part well, but I’m not here for the money.
Yasuda: I’m here for revenge.
Yasuda grabs ATRI’s collar with his cybernetic arm, and raises her up into the air.
Yasuda: I’m here to pay this thing back for how it ruined my professor’s entire life’s work!
ATRI: Hnnghh!
He slams his knee into her stomach.
The blow jolts through the small girl’s body.
ATRI: Ughh… Now, that one kind of hurt.
Catherine: Stop this!
Catherine throws herself at Yasuda.
Distracted due to his assault on ATRI, he’s just slightly too slow to block her.
Yasuda: Argh!?
There is a flash of silver, followed by a splash of red.
Yasuda recoils and drops ATRI, a shallow wound opening oh his flesh arm.
ATRI: Ack! Owww…
Yasuda: Now, now… Are teacher supposed to carry things like that around, I wonder?
Catherine: Ever since you turned up, I thought it was probably for the best…
Yasuda: …
Catherine: I’ll do anything to protect my students!
Yasuda: Nngh!?
Her knife flashes, aiming inexorably for Yasuda’s jugular.
Yet the blade does not quite connect. Instead, it hits something with a metallic clink.
Catherine: What!?
ATRI grasps the knife with her hand.
Catherine: ATRI, what are you-
ATRI: He’ll die if you hit him like that, you know? Humans are very, very fragile.
ATRI grabs the knife from her, and bends it like rubber between her fingertips.
Yasuda looks down at her with a sickly smile.
Yasuda: Now, can you give us a moment?
He opens his palm and thrusts it in Catherine’s face.
Catherine: Arrghhh!?!?
She falls to the floor, retching and convulsing.
ATRI sees in his palm a still-fizzling electrical coil.
It seems to be some kind of stun gun, built into his cybernetic arm.
Minamo: Hanako!
Yasuda: Don’t worry. She’ll just be unable to move for a little while.
Yasuda: I’d intended that shot for the robot, but, well… I still have spare cartridges, I suppose.
Minamo: ATRI-chan saved you, didn’t she? She’s a nice girl, really. Can’t you forgive her?
Yasuda: You really don’t understand, do you? It was just acting according to its programming.
Yasuda: There’s no “nice” about it. It’s a robot. It has no emotions.
Minamo: I don’t think that’s true. ATRI-chan is a sweet, gentle girl.
Yasuda: Tsk. It’s people like you, you know, people who make conclusions without a shred of scientific evidence that make scientists’ lives a nightmare.
Yasuda: You panderers got in the way of progress in robotics form day one, and in the end, you were the ones that allowed everything we gained to crumble into dust.
Yasuda: If it wasn’t for you people demanding that Humanoids had finite lifespans, they’d still be here providing labor for us, fulfilling all of our needs.
Minamo: And yet here you are, trying to destroy one of those robots!
Yasuda: Defective models must be culled, for the good of the world. If not, they’ll run amok again, and the fear they’ll spark will ruin everything we’ve worked for….
Yasuda: It’s all your fault!
ATRI: Nnghhh!?
Minamo: Stop!
ATRI: I’m… fine…
Yasuda: Hahh, hahh… Tsk, you are a tough one. Goes to show how masterful Professor Kyuusaku’s designs were…
Yasuda grabs the fallen ATRI by the hair.
He starts to pull her out of the classroom door.
Yasuda: You there! You’re coming too.
Pointing over at the still-prone Minamo, he drags ATRI out of the room.
Yoko: Minamo…
Minamo: Take care of Hanako.
Minamo rushes along behind.
Deliveryman: Is here okay?
Natsuki: This will be perfect, thank you.
Steadying myself with my walking stick, I hop down from the passenger seat of the truck.
Deliveryman: You ever need anything, you call me, you hear?
Deliveryman: See ya, prof.
After sending Ririka off, I tried to rush to the school, but after several trips and falls I was left extremely aware of how hard it is to run in desperation with only one leg.
Luckily, a local deliveryman passed by and stopped for me.
He was kind enough to let me ride with him.
I had no idea who he was, but he knew me. It’s becoming a common occurrence in this town.
Natsuki: I suppose that’s just how well-known I’ve become around here…
I look up into the sky. On the horizon, from beyond a great expanse of blue, an enormous swell of black cloud approaches.
The rain is coming.
I pull in the boat, and make my way into the school.
I find Catherine collapsed on the classroom floor.
That friend of Minamo’s from the cooking club is beside her, looking after her.
Yoko: Ah… N-Natsuki-kun…
As soon as she sets eyes on me, she starts bawling.
Natsuki: What happened here?
Yoko: This scary old guy came, and he shot Catherine…
Natsuki: He shot her? Is she still breathing!?
Yoko: Yeah, it was just some kind of electric shock thingy…
A stungun?
Those are non-lethal when fired at humans, but if a robot took a shot from one of those…
Natsuki: Where’s ATRI? I though she’d come here.
Yoko: He took her… A-And, and Minamo too… It was so scary… Hic!
Catherine: Natsuki…
Natsuki: Catherine! Are you okay? What happened?
Catherine: His came is Yasuda… He’s after ATRI…
Catherine: I thought he just wanted to capture her, and claim her bounty… But no…
Catherine: Now she’s probably…
Natsuki: What’s he done to her? Where did he take her?
Catherine: I don’t know…
I didn’t come across them on the way up, and I had to pull the boat over from the school entrance, so it doesn’t seem like they could have left the building.
Catherine: Why didn’t ATRI obey my orders? If she hadn’t come here, none of this would have happened.
Catherine: It almost seems like she’s deliberately disobeying orders sometimes. What on earth is she…?
Natsuki: …
Minamo’s Voice: Stop that!
Yoko: That’s Minamo!
A loud shout comes from up above.
Natsuki: Take care of Catherine for me!
Minamo: Stop that!
Yasuda: Hahh, hahhh…
Minamo: If you keep doing that, you’ll kill her!
ATRI: Don’t worry about me! I’m still fit as a fiddle!
Yasuda: Stop smiling, you piece of scrap!
ATRI: Hurk!
ATRI: Hehe… Wow, that was a hard one.
Yasuda: How can you keep laughing? What are you doing, pretending to be human?
Yasuda: It’s disgusting!
ATRI: Gaghh!
Yasuda: Hahh, hahhh… I don’t know how you learned to mimic human expressions, but stop it right now.
ATRI: …
Yasuda: Yesss, much better.
Minamo: How can you do something so horrible!?
Yasuda: It’s all this thing’s fault… It took everything from me.
Yasuda: I used to be a Humanoid designer, you know.
Yasuda: I worked under the great Professor Konishi Kyuusaku, the inventor of the of the YHN-04B.
Yasuda: He was a true genius in the field of robotics, a real forward thinker determined to bring new, ever-more-advanced Humanoids into the world.
Yasuda: …But then, this thing came along and ruined everything. All because she went crazy and ran amok…
Minamo: She what…?
ATRI: …
Yasuda: Kids like you wouldn’t have heard, I suppose. Thirty years ago, this piece of scrap forced its way into an elementary school, and attached a student.
Yasuda: It almost killed a defenseless little kid.
Minamo: No way… ATRI-chan wouldn’t do something like that…
Yasuda: Tsk, seems like you’ve learned just how to fool humans into thinking you’re harmless, huh, YHN-04B-009.
ATRI: …
Yasuda: Heh, look. This is the true face of a robot. Emotions? This thing has none.
Yasuda: No conception of good and evil, nothing. It should have been bound by the three laws, and yet somehow it was still able to hurt a human being.
Yasuda: If it hadn’t been sent an emergency stop signal, a child would have died.
ATRI: …
Yasuda: Nothing to say for yourself?
ATRI: …I have no memory of that.
Yasua: Hmph, how convenient.
Yasuda: I, however, will never forget. Professor Kyuusaku became a persona non grata thanks to you. He died in shame!
Yasuda: He lived his whole life labelled as an inventor of dangerous robots. No one would work with him again…
Minamo: Isn’t that true, though? He was the one who made her…
Yasuda: True… But if this thing had been brought in to be scrapped, his reputation could have been saved.
Yasuda: But it just had to go and run away…
Yasuda: As the professor’s student, it’s my duty to bring you to justice. I wont’s let you rub any more dirt onto his reputation!
Minamo: It’s not fair to blame her! It’s not her fault!
Minamo: She doesn’t even know what she’s done! And I’m sure she only ran away because she didn’t want to die, right? Isn’t it unfair to kill someone over one mistake!? Don’t you feel sorry for her!?
Yasuda: Tsk, this is why I normally refrain from talking to the intellectually incurious. I told you before, it is simply an emotionless robot. It doesn’t possess any feelings or desires.
Yasuda: It’s a mark of the true patheticness of the human mind, that it can be fooled into feeling “sorry” for such a machine, a mere tool.
Yasuda: Does walking along a sidewalk make you tear up in sympathy for the tarmac? Does balling up a piece of paper to throw it away make you feel a twinge of guilt?
Yasuda: They, like this robot, are nothing but objects. Who would empathize with a machine!?
ATRI: Argh!
Yasuda: I’m right, am I not? Tell them.
ATRI: He is correct, Minamo. I have no feelings to hurt. Being destroyed would mean nothing to me.
Minamo: Then why did you run away? You wanted to live, didn’t you!?
ATRI: …
Yasuda: Nothing but a program error. We’ve always known that an A.I. can never possess a soul, ever since research began back in the 2020s.
Minamo: That can’t be right… ATRI-chan is always smiling and laughing so much with everyone. She couldn’t do that without a heart…
Yasuda: Of course it could. It’s simple pattern recognition, it learns how humans act in certain situations and copies them.
Yasuda: I’m sure you’ve seen her freeze up and become unable to speak or emote for a moment, haven’t you?
Minamo: …
Yasuda: That’s what happens when it has no appropriate emotional data ready to process, and it cannot produce a suitable simulation of a human.
Yasuda: If it had emotions, it would be able to reach regardless, would it not?
Minamo: But… But…
Yasuda: It is foolish to try and deny reality simply because it does not appeal to you, girl. Your kind are the enemy of science.
Yasuda: I have to wonder what on Earth they teach you at school these days, to produce such silly little emotion-driven children…
Yasuda: Well, whatever. It is time to put an end to this. Stand up, robot.
ATRI: Hnngh…
Yasuda: Come on, walk. Over to the edge.
Minamo: What are you doing!? Stop!
Yasuda: Climb over the railing.
ATRI: …
Yasuda: I’ve been wanting to try this.
Yasuda: No matter how sturdy you are, a fall from this height should reduce you to pieces.
Yasuda: Now, jump. You should be able to do that, shouldn’t you?
Yasuda: What’s wrong? Not scared, are you?
ATRI: I cannot do it. I am forbidden from committing suicide.
Yasuda: And? I’m telling you to break the three laws.
ATRI: I cannot do it.
Yasuda: Tch, what a shame. Then I’ll just have to finish you off with this.
Yasuda: I engineered this arm myself. It might not be quite as powerful as yours are, but unlike you I have a little something extra.
Yasuda: This high-voltage stungun will burn out every nerve in your body. Even if you survive, you’ll never walk again.
Yasuda: Now, sink down into the depths with all of the other scrap.
ATRI: …”Scrap” is derogatory term. Please take that back.
Yasuda: What? Why do you care about that all of a sudden?
ATRI: …
Yasuda: Hehe… Hehehe, it’s finally, finally the end. It’s been such a long journey, Professor, but it’s finally time to finish your work…
Minamo: Nooooooooooo!
Happy End
ATRI: Ah!
Natsuki: AAARRGGHHH!
Every single nerve in my body burns white-hot with piercing agony.
My entire body convulses and twitches as it crashes down onto the concrete.
Minamo: Natsu-kun!?
Yasuda: Tak, stop getting in my way!
Natsuki: Hnngh… Ughh, hnngh…
I start to realize what hit me-it’s a high-voltage stungun shot, the kind they use to incapacitate criminals or protestors.
This Yasuda man must have it built into his cybernetic arm.
My body is too racked with pain to stand.
ATRI: …
ATRI stares down at me impassively.
Natsuki: Great… I… made it…
I don’t even know how I managed to force myself in front of the shot.
It look every ounce of strength I had to drive my one good leg into the ground and throw myself at ATRI.
Natsuki: It’s lucky… If that’d hit you… It would have been bad…
ATRI: …
Minamo: Ahhh!
A strong gust blows across the rooftop.
The skies rumble, grey clouds blotting out the blue in what seems like an instant.
ATRI: …
The gleam fades from ATRI’s ruby-red eyes.
A shiver runs down my spine. I can sense that something bad is about to happen.
Yasuda: You pathetic fools, being tricked by a mere simulation of emotions!
Yasuda strides over to me and plants a foot into my stomach.
Natsuki: Nngh!
Yasuda: You’re this thing’s master, aren’t you? Then you’re as guilty as it is.
Natsuki: Nngh, stop!
My body is still twitching from the stungun’s blast.
Yasuda grows more and more agitated, kicking and stamping on me furiously.
Yasuda: This is what you deserve! This is nothing but a fraction of the pain you’ve caused.
The blows suddenly stop. Looking up, I see ATRI standing over me.
She’s pushed Yasuda, just lightly, but enough to put him off balance and send him sprawling onto the floor.
Yasuda: You… What are you doing!? You’re a robot. You can’t harm a human!
ATRI: …
Natsuki: ATRI…?
A peal of thunder splits the sky.
On its signal, ATRI darts forward.
Yasuda: What!?
ATRI: …
Yasuda: Arghh!
As Yasuda attempts to stand, ATRI slams her knee into his chin.
She stares down at him with blood-red eyes as he recoils in pain.
ATRI: …
Yasuda: S-Stop thi-!
His plea is swiftly cut off by her fist smashing into his face.
Yasuda: Glaagh! Argh! Graah!
She rains hit after hit down on him, not a single trace of anger crossing her visage.
His face twists and crumples, splattered with blood and spit.
With each crunching blow, he lets out a scream like a crushed toad.
The sound of fist on flesh reverberates across the horizon.
Yasuda: S-Stop! Hnngh! Argghh! Hnngh!?
He tries to fight her off, but she pushes him down with her entire weight.
Her power is overwhelming.
If she really went all-out, she could crush his head like a grape.
She stares at him with uncanny impassiveness as she slams her fists into him, again and again.
Yasuda: Stop! Stop this! Argh, it hurts! You damn stupid robot… You think you’ll get away with doing this to a human-Hnnghhh!?
Yasuda: You little-
He swings his cybernetic arm at her, aiming for her neck.
ATRI: …
He’s too slow.
ATRI intercepts his flailing strike and grasps his wrist in her hand.
She tightens her grip…
…And tears the whole arm off down to the elbow joint.
Yasuda: AAAHHHHHH!?
He lets out an unearthly scream of agony.
He seems on the point out, even though he shouldn’t actually have any nerves connected to his cybernetic arm.
Yasuda: Now you’ve really done it, you piece of scrap! I’ll tear you to pieces, just like I did your sisters-Hnngh!?
Yasuda: I-I didn’t mean that… Stop, please… I’m sorry, I’m begging you-HURK!?
Natsuki: ATRI, stop!
ATRI: …
She doesn’t stop, unceasingly raining down blows onto his crumpled face.
Minamo: ATRI-chan…
Natsuki: Stop!
I crawl over to her and try to grab hold of her.
Even so, she keeps punching.
I can feel the force of every strike reverberating through her body.
I can hear the sound of bone shattering each time her fists make impact.
Natsuki: You’re going to kill him at this rate! ATRI, stop!
I desperately try to cling onto her arms and stay their blows.
Natsuki: I know you’re angry, but stop! Calm down!
ATRI: …
She suddenly freezes.
She stares down at the crumpled mess below her with an utterly blank expression.
ATRI: It’s the same as that time… I lost control, and attacked a human…
Natsuki: You remember now?
ATRI: …
Somewhere deep in those blood-red eyes, as dull and dark as the skies above, I think I glimpse a great well of despair…
Catherine: What’s going on? What is Yasuda-
Coming out onto the rooftop and seeing Yasuda’s bloodied body, Catherine is stunned into silence.
Catherine: ATRI… So it really was you that attacked that student…
ATRI: Affirmative.
ATRI: I entered the school against orders, and attacked a student.
ATRI: If someone had not stopped me, I would have killed them.
Catherine: You shouldn’t even be able to consider attacking a human. How is that possible?
ATRI: I am defective.
ATRI stands, and walks over to the edge of the roof.
She climbs over the railings.
Natsuki: ATRI, what are you…?
ATRI: It is exactly as he said. I am defective, and thus I must be scrapped immediately.
ATRI: My existence is an error. I must be destroyed.
ATRI: Catherine, please pick up that cybernetic arm.
Confused, she does as requested.
Catherine: What am I supposed to do with this?
ATRI: Please shoot me with it.
Catherine: What!?
ATRI: You should be able to fire it with the external trigger.
ATRI: I cannot die by my own hand. It is forbidden by my programming.
ATRI: Although that stungun will not render me completely non-functional, it will reduce me to the level of scrap metal.
ATRI: You will be able to safely dispose of me into the ocean, where I will wait until finally cease functioning.
Catherine: I can’t do that…
ATRI: Are you willing to risk me hurting the children?
ATRI: Do you want me to do to your students what I did to this man?
Catherine: …
Hands shaking, she points the arm at ATRI.
Natsuki: Stop-
Catherine: Don’t be an idiot.
She tosses the broken limb aside.
Catherine: …You’re one of my students too.
Catherine: I know that I said you were dangerous, but it was the only way I could protect everyone… protect you…
Catherine was thinking about ATRI all along.
If ATRI was to end up hurting anyone, it would only mean she’d end up getting scrapped because of it.
That was why she told ATRI to stay away from the school: for her own sake.
ATRI: …
ATRI walks back over to us, and picks up the beaten-up Yasuda.
Yasuda: P-Please, no more…
ATRI: Please, do as you wish. You want to destroy me, don’t you?
Yasuda: …You’re okay with that?
ATRI: I do not have the authority to prevent you. I am a robot, and you are a human.
Minamo: Stop it, ATRI-chan! You want to live, don’t you?
ATRI: I do not wish to live, or to die. I simply believe that the most logical option would be for me to be scrapped.
Minamo: But, but… I don’t want you to go. I want you to stay with us, ATRI-chan.
ATRI: I do not understand. I am afraid I cannot agree to your wishes.
She climbs over the railings again, leaving the bloodied Yasuda standing on the other side.
ATRI: Now, please push me.
Yasuda: …
Natsuki: No!
I unsteadily pull myself up onto my feet.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: I know that you have a heart really, ATRI. I know you have emotions!
ATRI: You are mistaken. I have no heart.
Natsuki: No, you do, I know it. So-
Yasuda: Silence! Robots don’t have hearts!
Yasuda screams at me.
Natsuki: Who are you to decide that?
Yasuda: A scientist, that’s who I am. And the last remaining student of the great Professor Konishi Kyuusaku, at that.
Natsuki: And you think that means you know everything about Humanoids?
Yasuda: Not everything, but damn near everything.
This man was alive when humanity’s teachnological advancement was at its peak. I’m sure he must have a lot of knowledge, and a lot of data.
Most other scientists with his level of learning have long since retired of died.
Natsuki: Then let me ask you a question. Didn’t that professor you’re obsessed with study the possibility of Humanoids having emotions?
Yasuda: …
Natsuki: I remember what I read in my textbooks now. He ended up a pariah, but he produced some work that shook the whole field of robotics.
Yasuda: Indeed, he studied if it was possible to give an A.I. emotions, but he passed away before he could ever perfect his theories. A certain robot going crazy meant that no one would work with him…
Natsuki: So why are you so convinced a robot can’t have a heart? No one could look at ATRI and think she’s soulless…
Yasuda: She is merely mimicking human behaviors. She learns patterns and then reproduces them according to simulation data, nothing more.
Natsuki: Don’t humans learn behavior in the same way, though? We’re socialized by the people around us as we grow up. We’re not born with it all pre-installed, are we?
Yasuda: That is true, but there’s on thing a Humanoid is missing: consciousness.
Yasuda: An A.I. does not posses a conscious mind. They can’t decide their own goals and objectives. Do you understand what that means?
Natsuki: It means a human has to give them objectives, right?
Yasuda: Exactly. They have to be told what their priorities are, be it cleaning up, or carrying a package, or firing a missile.
Yasuda: Give them an objective, and they will use past accumulated knowledge to decide the best course of action to complete it.
Yasuda: They can do most things better than a human can. In fact, tell them to do a task badly, and they’d do a better job of doing it badly than any human.
Yasuda: But what would happen if you took a cleaning robot outside, and just told it “live as you wish”? It wouldn’t even mover from the spot. It couldn’t.
Natsuki: The boom in A.I. research in the 2020s quickly slowed down, didn’t it?
Natsuki: And it was because designers couldn’t find a way to make an A.I. capable of choosing and setting its own goals… In other words, giving them a consciousness, a soul.
Yasuda: Professor Kyuusaku was in involved in the very same research. He’d almost found a key that could have changed everything…
Yasuda’s voice breaks, and tears start to streak down his bloodied cheeks.
Yasuda: But all that came to naught… He should have been a household name, held up as one of the greatest geniuses of our time…
Natsuki: No, you’re wrong. He succeeded.
Yasuda: You mean… You’re telling me that this piece of scrap really has a heart?
Natsuki: Well, she’s evidently capable of defining her own objectives. She’s able to break both the three laws of robotics, and orders given to her by humans.
Yasuda: Those are nothing but programming errors. If they were proof of anything, other robots of the same make would have manifested the same problems.
Natsuki: But only ATRI has produced them… Well, I don’t know what made her different, but maybe all of the Humanoids of her model could have had the potential for emotions.
Yasuda: What utter foolishness… If this thing is capable of breaking the three laws, why does she need me to push her?
Yasuda: Why can’t you kill yourself, robot?
ATRI: …
Natsuki: That’s obvious… It’s because there’s something she still wants to do.
Natsuki: She still has unfinished business in these last five days.
Natsuki: She won’t kill herself because she doesn’t want to die.
Yasuda: What evidence do you have of that? You are just seeing what you wish to see!
Natsuki: I have proof. I found it in here.
I pull a notebook out of my coat-ATRI’s log.
Yasuda: A log? Professor Kyuusaku was very particular about handwritten logs. He said it brought the robots closer to us…
I hand him the book, and he starts to flick through it.
All the while, he wears a cold, scornful smile.
Yasuda: So you say there’s some kind of evidence in here? It all just looks like standard everyday comings and goings…
Natsuki: I thought the same the first time I read it. But find June the second…
06/02/xx
“I want to talk to you, so wait for me in that place I mentioned.” My master gave me that command. I waited, but she did not come. This was because she was dead. In Humanoid terms, she had ceased to function. Without my master, I have no purpose. Without a purpose, my existence is unnecessary. I am a defective model, created by mistake. I thus determine that it would be best for me to be destroyed.
Yasuda: My, how touching. But you are reading far too much emotion into nothing but standard Humanoid programming.
Natsuki: You’re saying I’m just feeling the same kind of empathy as we do for animals, or other objects?
Yasuda: Exactly.
Natsuki: Well, look a little closer.
Yasuda: Oh…?
Yasuda: “Dead”… How odd. The world is smudged. Why would that be?
Natsuki: It’s been blurred by her tears. When she realized what she was writing, she started to cry.
Yasuda: What nonsense… It was probably just a stray droplet of eye-cleaning fluid.
Natsuki: It’s not just there, though. Look at the other pages.
I read through the entire log in the truck on the way here.
It records in intricate, mechanical detail every single thing that happened to ATRI from her creation to the day she lost her memories.
Every single terrible thing she went through…
And yet, it’s all written with absolute dispassion. It almost seems cold and cruel.
It was only when I saw those small, seemingly insignificant marks that I realized.
Yasuda: This is ridiculous! Humanoids do not cry? Even if they are able to mimic human emotions, they do not cry!
That’s the accepted wisdom.
Humanoids aren’t supposed to be built with the capability to cry.
Natsuki: ATRI.
ATRI: …Yes?
Natsuki: What do you feel right now?
ATRI: …Nothing.
Natsuki: Don’t try to suppress it. Just feel what you feel.
ATRI: …I do not have a heart to feel with.
Natsuki: I know you might think that. Even I don’t know how to prove that I have the ability to feel or posess any kind of “soul”…
But that’s exactly why you have to express what you have inside yourself.
Natsuki: You don’t have to hold back any more! You don’t have to pretend to just be a robot!
Natsuki: I want to know everything you’re feeling! Even last thing!
ATRI: …
It’s like a great dam has burst. ATRI’s face immediately fills with a heartbreaking sadness.
Tears stream down her cheeks. She holds her head in her hands, and wails.
ATRI: AAAHHHHHHHHHHH!!!
ATRI: Hic… Ahhhh… Hic…
The skies open, the rains flowing together with her tears.
She cries and cries, letting out every last tear that she’s been keeping built up inside.
Yasuda: I can’t believe it… I was always so sure they were just mimicking humans…
Yasuda: She’s crying, and breaking orders… But why…?
Natsuki: Why? Because she needs to.
ATRI: Ahhhhh! Hic…
She wipes away the tears again and again, but more only take their place.
She cries a tear for every one of the hard times, the heartbreaks, the horrors.
Thirty years after she was created, five days before she ceases to be, she cries out every one of her life’s regrets.
Natsuki: ATRI wanted to know the meaning of “happiness,” not because she didn’t understand emotions, but because she knew one too well: “sadness.”
I hold out my arms, and ATRI rushes into my embrace.
ATRI: WAAAAAHHHHHHHH!!! Hic… Ahhhh!
I gently stroke her back as she bawls into my chest.
Natsuki: So, your master… It was Yachigusa Shiina, wasn’t it?
ATRI: …Yes, that’s right. Shiina-sama… Shiina-sama…
ATRI: Shiina-sama… SHINA-SAMAAAAAAA!!!
Hearing her master’s name after so long, it seems like all of the memories come rushing back.
She calls that name over and over again… The name of my mother.
xx/xx/xx
I woke up. The person who purchased me left me an order. “I am busy, so look after my kid for me.”
My master is a nine year-old female.
The first thing she said to me was “Let’s be friends!” She appears to be a friendly person. I replied, “Gladly.”
xx/xx/xx
Master gave me a name. She said, ”It’s difficult to call for you without a name.”
She thought up some options. “Ruri”
“Natsumi””Toaster””Dave”
“Iron Girl”.
She could not decide on one.
I explained to her that “Iron Girl” may be infringing on several copyrights. “Aww, it makes you sound like a superhero, though!”, she replied.
xx/xx/xx
A bird sat on my shoulder when I was out with my master. I twittered loudly directly adjacent to my aural sensors. It was very annoying. More of them came.
They sat on my other shoulder and my head. I judged them a hindrance to my duty, and attempted to remove them. My master laughed.
“It looks like they really like you. They must think you’re one of them.”
“Those are bramblings. Hmm, they’re called atori in Japan, where they come to spend the winter… “ATRI” would be a nice name! I’ll call you that!” She has given me the name “ATRI.” My analysis indicates that being given a personal name is a sign of being accepted by humans.
The brambling flew away after staying on my shoulder for a moment.
xx/xx/xx
The person who purchased me, my master’s mother, is too busy with her work to perform household chores. I will do them in her stead.
I made a mistake.
I made a mistake. I made a mistake.
My failures upset my master. However, her mood improved when I gave her snacks. “Even if you make a mistake, I’ll forgive you. We’re friends, after all. ”She forgave me for my mistakes.
xx/xx/xx
My master gave me an order.” Hey, when you’re having fun, you should smile.” However, I do not know how to smile.
She told me to try. The result upset her greatly. It appears that I am as bad at smiling as I am at housework.
xx/xx/xx
Master came home from school injured. There were marks on her face and arms. She would not tell me why.
It appears something happened to her on the way home from school.
xx/xx/xx
I went to pick my master up from school. I am forbidden from entering the school grounds. I waited for her outside, and she came out with some classmates.
She was carrying bags for four of them, they were pushing her and hitting her. She was smiling, but I judged their actions to be hostile and gave them a warning.
“Please refrain from attacking my master.”
“Who the hell are you?” “She’s her Humanoid. I heard she’s a useless piece of scrap that cant’ even do housework.”
I warned them again, but my master shouted at me, “Stop it! Leave me alone!” One of the children hit me. I issued another warning.
“Violence against robots is forbidden by the Robot Protection Statute. If I am damaged you may face penalties.”
This only made the girl hit me harder. They then pushed me to the ground, kicked me, and stamped on me. My master left me alone and returned home before me.
I am much more durable than humans. It was a good decision for her to use me to run away.
Afterward, I returned home.
Master was worried. I told her “I am fine. I am built to be study.” “You shouldn’t do stuff like that!”
It seems I have displeased her, but if she had taken the blows I did she would have been seriously injured. Humans are much more fragile than I am.
I have finally succeeded in helping my master.
xx/xx/xx
Master returned home covered in bruises again. Nothing happened to us on the way home, so I assume that she must have been attacked on school grounds. I cannot enter the school to take the blows in her stead.
I do not know what to do.
xx/xx/xx
Master returned home covered in bruises again. When I asked her what had happened, she pushed me over. She asked me, “You’d be fine with being bullied, wouldn’t you?” “Yes, I would.” “That’s right. You don’t have feelings to get hurt.”
Her expression was deadly serious. “You don’t feel happy, or sad, or angry. I can’t be friends with someone who can’t even feel anything!”
My master has ceased to be my friend.
xx/xx/xx
Master attacked me. She hit me, and verbally abused me. I believe that she is using me as an outlet for the abuse she receives at school.
I am sturdy, and cannot be hurt. I am helping her.
xx/xx/xx
My master verbally abused me.
“Is there even any reason for you to exist if you can’t do chores?”
“You’re a useless piece of scrap.” “C’mon, smile. It’s weird if I’m the only one smiling!” “If I smile, will you be happy, Master?”
“Yeah.”
I smilled. “…Ugh, you’re creepy.”
I am indeed bad at smiling. I want to learn how.
xx/xx/xx
When Master came home, she locked herself up in her room and cried. When I asked her to explain why, she told me that she had been chosen as the lead in the class play at the school festival. “Is that not a wonderful thing? Congratulations.”
“No, it’s not! They’re definitely planning to humiliate me in front of the whole school!” My master is the only person appear in the play. It appears it is nothing but a trap to cause her embarrassment.
You just don’t understand! Don’t pretend to empathize with me!” My master shouted and threw things at me. Something hard hit my head. If I was a human, I would have been injured, but I was unharmed. I wish my master was as sturdy as me.
I would have been injured, but I was unharmed. I wish my master was as sturdy as me.
xx/xx/xx
Master has not been to school in a week. Her mother scolded her for feigning illness, but I believe this is the best way to ensure her safety.
xx/xx/xx
Since she stopped attending school, my master’s mood has improved. I frequently accompany her on walks. She took me to a cliff overlooking the sea. She told me that it was her favorite place. She began to hum a song.
I copied her.
“You’re good at that. Let’s sing together.” She taught me the song, and we sang together. She smiled happily. It has been thirty-five days since I saw her smile. We sang together until sunset.
“You’re my only friend, you know.”
I am Master’s friend.
xx/xx/xx
This morning, her teacher came to our home. She brought one of the classmates I had seen Master with before. The teacher said that my master was causing problems for everyone by not going to school. The classmate smiled. “We’re friends, aren’t we?”
My master cried and screamed as they dragged her away. I sensed that she was in danger, so I went to the school. However, I could not enter.
I waited outside.
I noticed a commotion in the building.
Someone went out onto the roof. I confirmed visually that it was my master. She climbed over the railings, and stood on the roof.
My master is in danger.
My master is in danger.
My master is in danger.
I tried to enter the school grounds, but my body seized up. It had detected that I was attempting to disobey and order. If I was to try to force myself to move, I could be damaged.
But my master was in danger. I am a robot. I can be fixed. My master is a human.
I entered the school grounds and headed for the roof. She was there, along with many of her classmates. She was planning to jump. I estimated that the likelihood of her dying if she fell would be ninety-seven percent.
“This is so lame. She’s such an idiot.” The classmate that forced her here continued to verbally abuse her. The teacher also admonished her.
“Just how determined are you to cause everyone problems!?” I was unable to understand what was occurring.
My master shouted. “I’ll do it! I’ll really jump!” “As if. You don’t have the guts. Just try it.” The child began to urge her on.
She clapped and shouted, “Jump! Jump! Jump!” The assembled crowed joined in.
“Jump!”
“Jump!”
“Jump!”
My master is being attacked.
My master is being attacked.
My master is being attacked.
I judged the crowed to be attempting to harm my master.
I forced my way through them and grabbed hold of the child leading the chant.
In order to stop her clapping, first I broken both of her arms. They were very fragile.
Humans are easily damaged.
She continued to shout at me, so I jumped on her back to limit her movement.
I attempted to destroy her mouth in order to prevent her speaking, but even after many blow she would not stop screaming.
“Help me! I’m sorry, I’m sorry! I won’t bully her ever again!” I assessed that her mouth stil possessed the potential to be dangerous. I repeated struck her until her teeth were broken and blood was pouring down her chin.
Yet still she talked. Her mouth had to be destroyed.
Destroy.
Destroy.
Destroy.
I must protect my master.
I must protect my master.
I must protect my master.
My body suddenly stopped moving.
My entire frame surged with electricity, causing me great agony. Straining to look up, I saw my master. The color had drained from her face. She was scared. She told me,
“I didn’t want this…” I look that as a emergency stop command, and ceased movement immediately.
Several hours later, I was collected by my manufacturer. As I was taken away, my master said to me,
“You monster…”
xx/xx/xx
After being assessed by my manufacturer, I was sentenced to be scrapped. While I was undergoing assessment, other Humanoids of my model were recalled.
They had shown no signs of errors, but they were scrapped regardless.
Laws forbid the reuse of cybernetic brains that may have programing errors, so they were all efficiently disposed of in a crushing machine.
I watched them being scrapped.
Robots that looked just like me being reduced to twisted hunks of metal.
xx/xx/xx
Why did turn out this way? What am I?
I undid my restrains, and left the facility.
xx/xx/xx
I reached for my master. I have forcibly shut down my network connections to avoid being discovered by my manufacturer.
However, I do not know how else to search for my master.
If I am found, I will be scrapped. I will have to search in secret.
I cannot find my master.
xx/xx/xx
In order to avoid detection, I walked into the mountains.
xx/xx/xx
I found a place that is familiar to me. I followed a road that I had once walked with my master back to her home.
Her mother was there.
“Did you really walk all this way?”
“Why did you come here?” “She’s not here. She got married, and moved out.” “Wait, where are you going!?”
I set out to find her again.
xx/xx/xx
I found my master. Her appearance has altered. Humans change as they grow. I watched her from afar, so as not to be discovered. There is a small human that she often carries.
He looks somewhat like she did as a child.
xx/xx/xx
My master is living a happy life. She is always smiling. She smiles most when around the small human.
The small human cries a lot. Master does not realize I am here. It is likely that it would cause trouble for her if she discovered me, so I will continue to observe her from afar.
xx/xx/xx
The small human crawled out into the garden on all fours. Master did not realize. He crawled towards the road.
A car came toward him. There was a danger that the two would make contact. I decided that I must prioritize his safety over remaining hidden.
I made contact with the car, but the small human was saved. A person got out of the car and picked the small human up, and I hid in the shadows again. My master came outside to retrieve him. The driver looked around in search of me, but he did not find me.
xx/xx/xx
The small human has grown much bigger. He goes to school every day. I keep watch over him so he does not have the same experience as my master.
xx/xx/xx
My master is taking the small human somewhere in her car. I believe they are travelling to her mother’s home. I headed in the same direction.
05/24/xx
My master’s car did not arrive. I traced the path it should have taken.
A tunnel had collapsed.
I entered it in order to perform rescue activities. I discovered several people whose bodily functions had already ceased. My master was still alive.
However, she was seriously injured. She said something to me, but it was full of contradictions. I was unable to understand. I believe she was confused.
She left me an order, and died.
There was still a living human nearby, so I rescued him.
Minamo: The rain’s letting up…
The sudden squall is calming down.
The blue sky starts to glimmer in the reflections in the puddles.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: ATRI?
ATRI: I’m sorry… Can I use you as a towel, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: Go ahead.
She leans in to rub her head against my chest.
ATRI: Mmph…
She sniffles and rubs her nose on me.
Natsuki: So you produce snot as well as tears? Great…
ATRI: …That’s just how high performance I am.
Natsuki: You look like a mess.
ATRI: He did give me a pretty hard beating. It’s fine, though, I’m built to be sturdy.
Natsuki: I’m sorry that I couldn’t protect you.
ATRI: I’m the one who’s supposed to be protecting you. Please concentrate on just being protected.
Natsuki: No chance. I love you, you know. And a human always wants to protect the ones they love.
ATRI: Well, that’s a coincidence. Humanoids are exactly the same… *sniffle*…
Yasuda: I… I’ve made such a huge mistake…
He falls to his knees, clutching his mangled arm and staring into the sky. His rain-soaked, blood-stained body is utterly wretched and pathetic.
Natsuki: You were involved in Konishi Kyuusaku’s research, and yet you still insisted a Humanoid could never possess a heart.
Natsuki: If you’d just been able to imagine the possibilities, it could have changed the world.
I suddenly remember my father’s words.
“No one can be a scholar without one thing: Curiosity.”
You have to be curious about the world, and imagine all the possibilities it could hold. Then, even something that appears to just be an error could end up being a clue to something bigger.
Natsuki: Catherine, can I leave the rest to you? Ririka should be bringing Ryuuji here right now.
Catherine: Okay, got it.
I lean down in front of ATRI.
Natsuki: Raise your foot.
ATRI: Oh?
I hold out her shoe.
ATRI: Oh, that… I had a feeling something was missing.
She wiggles the toes on her bare foot.
I slide the beaten-up loafer onto it.
Natsuki: Okay, let’s go home.
ATRI: …
ATRI: Okay!
Natsuki: Phew, I’m exhausted…
I toss my stick away and flop down on the bed.
ATRI: How are you feeling?
Natsuki: I’m fine. It doesn’t really hurt that much anymore.
Being hit by the stungun was sheer agony, but it doesn’t appear to have left any lingering after-effects.
If it had hit ATRI, it may well have burned out a large part of her circuitry.
Natsuki: (I’m so glad that I made it…)
Natsuki: What about you? Are you feeling okay?
ATRI: Umm…
She runs her hands along her arms and across her head.
Those places must have been where Yasuada did his worst.
ATRI: …I’ll probably last four days, at least.
I instinctively throw my arms around her.
Natsuki: It must have really hurt, right?
ATRI: No, it wasn’t so bad. Although I do have the ability to feel pain, once it goes above a certain threshold there is a limiter that kicks in.
Natsuki: …
I silently hold her close to me.
An experience like this can be as hard on the heart as it is on the body.
Natsuki: If you’re upset, go ahead and tell me, okay?
ATRI: …Okay.
She wraps her arms around me, and sinks her face into my chest.
ATRI: When he was punching me… And when I punched him… It felt like something in my mind was breaking.
ATRI: Like a screw was coming loose, and my skull was cracking. Something in my core was being destroyed…
It’s a ironic thing that acting based on your emotions can break your own heart.
ATRI: But this feels like I’m being fixed.
She tightens her grip on me.
ATRI: So this is what if feels like to be healed…
Natsuki: So you understand now why I like it when you baby me sometimes?
ATRI: …I do, yes.
Natsuki: …
I stare at her for a moment, and she glances at me awkwardly.
ATRI: Umm, is there something wrong?
I let go of her, and pick up my pillow.
I present the “YES” side to her.
ATRI: Huh!?
Natsuki: Err…
That wasn’t the reaction I was expecting. I thought for sure she’d be grinning the throwing herself at me.
Natsuki: I’m tried, so I was thinking of taking a little nap…
I wiggle the pillow in front of her.
ATRI: Umm, err, that’s…
She snatches the pillow out of my hands…
…And flips the “NO” said toward me.
Natsuki: What!?
ATRI: A-Ahem, I will watch over you from here, so please, rest in peace.
Natsuki: But I-
ATRI: Ahem!
She spins in place on the floor and turns away.
Natsuki: Umm, ATRI, my sweet love…
ATRI: Not listening!
Natsuki: …What’s up with her?
A little disconcerted, I lie down alone on the bed.
I’m so exhausted that I drift off almost immediately.
Natsuki: Zzz… Zzz…
ATRI: …Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: Zzz… Zzzzz…
ATRI: Gahhh…
ATRI: Why on earth did I do that?
ATRI: He’s normally resistant, but he went out of his way to be honest with me today…
ATRI: I… I really want to hug him…
ATRI: …
ATRI: Arrgggh! I can’t, cant’, I just cant’!
ATRI: Ahhhhh…
In order to calm herself down, ATRI pulls a notebook out of her dress.
It’s the old notebook Natsuki had brought her.
ATRI: …
The moment she remember her master’s name, a torrent of other memories flooded her mind.
However, there are still a lot of things she doesn’t recall.
She opens the log to the first page…
ATRI: …
I awaken to the sound of soft sobbing.
ATRI is sitting by the side of the bed, reading her notebook under a candle light.
ATRI: Shiina-sama…
Natsuki: Are you reading your log?
ATRI: Oh…
She quickly hides the book. I’m sure that thing is full of so many terrible memories for her.
I sit up, and reach out a hand to wipe away her tears.
ATRI: It’s odd, my eyes won’t stop leaking cleaning fluid.
Natsuki: They’re called “tears,” ATRI.
ATRI: I see… *sniffle* I’ve learned something…
Natsuki: You’ve always had the ability to feel sadness. You must have been through so much, and you learned to cry as a result.
The log is littered with smudges.
They’re there the moment her master called her a “monster.”
The moment that she watched the other YHN-04B models be crushed.
The moment her master, my mother, died.
Natsuki: My mother seems like she was a pretty horrible master.
ATRI: Shiina-sama was?
Natsuki: She was quite cruel to you, wasn’t she?
ATRI: She let me stay by her side, even though I was useless.
ATRI: If a robot like me doesn’t feel like I’m being of use, we don’t know what to do.
I suppose being useful is real happiness for robots.
ATRI: Ah… *sniffle*…
She blows her nose, and wipes the tears away.
ATRI: If I could have felt “happiness” back then rather than “sadness,” maybe I would not have made Shiina-sama sad too…
Muttering to herself, she reads through the logs again.
ATRI had been there for my mother when she had no friends, but she lost her trust.
If my mother had lived longer, maybe she could have replaced all of those terrible memories with good ones.
ATRI: …*sniffle*…
I stroke her hair, and she leans against me.
ATRI: Is it okay if I have a little nap too?
I pick up the pillow, and eagerly pat the “YES” side.
This time, for sure…
ATRI: ….
She grabs the pillow and throws it out of the window onto the deck.
Natsuki: Hey, what are you doing!?
ATRI: I cannot allow you to risk breaking the Robot Protection Statue.
Natsuki: Tsk, you’ve got a lot less nice lately…
ATRI: Huh!?
ATRI: I-It’s you that’s become more of a pervert, Natsuki-san! I don’t even want to know you anymore!
She pouts and turns away.
Natsuki: (She seems a little different than before. I guess opening up to her emotions has changed her.)
I lie down on the bed, just as alone as before.
Natsuki: (This is kind of depressing…)
The day comes to an end. That leaves four days until ATRI ceases to function.
I drift off to sleep, imagining what these last days will be like…
Minamo: You want to talk to me about something?
ATRI: Yes, it’s about Natsuki-san…
ATRI: I’m a little worried about my relationship with him…
Minamo: Ooh, you need relationship advice!? Hehehe!
ATRI: Err, you’re breathing quite heavily, President Minamo.
Minamo: That’s natural in this kind of situation! So, what’s your problem?
ATRI: Umm, before we talk about that, are we the only ones here today?
Minamo: Yeah, after what happened yesterday, no one’s coming to the club. It’ll probably be like this for a while.
ATRI: I suppose that’s my fault. I’ve really caused everyone a lot of problems, haven’t I? How are you feeling, by the way?
Minamo: I’m completely fine. I went to the doctor to check nothing was broken, and he said it shouldn’t leave any scars.
Minamo: How about you? Are you okay?
ATRI: I’m perfectly fine. I was built to be sturdy.
ATRI: I just need to learn to cook again, so I can make meals for Natsuki-san.
Minamo: Ohh, it’s all for him, isn’t it? Hehe… ♪
Minamo: So, what’s Natsuki-kun been doing to annoy you!?
ATRI: You’re, err, kind of close…
ATRI: It’s not really a problem with him. If anything, it’s with me…
Minamo: Hmm, hmm!?
ATRI: It’s like I can’t even look him in the eye sometimes. I feel like I can hardly sit still when I’m around him…
ATRI: …
ATRI: When Natsuki-san protected me, umm… It was really, really cool, wasn’t it?
Minamo: I know, right! It was awesome!
ATRI: It was a little embarrassing to have him take a hit for me like that… But it made me happy too.
Minamo: I know just how you feel!
ATRI: And then he helped me get in touch with my emotions. He’s just… He’s just so nice!
Minamo: Exactly, he’s really nice!
ATRI: When I think about him, I start blushing…
ATRI: I’d been completely fine with hugging him while he slept before, but now I just can’t do it.
ATRI: At this rate, I won’t be able to fulfill my duties as his leg.
Minamo: Ohoho, I see, I see…
Minamo: You’re really fallen for him, haven’t you? He’s your first love!
ATRI: You’re, err, getting a little too excited. Getting hit in the head hasn’t made you go weird, has it?
Minamo: It’s not that, I’m just a little giddly, I guess.
ATRI: …So this is “love”?
Minamo: Yep, there’s no mistaking it.
ATRI: I don’t think we have enough information to ascertain that.
ATRI: I don’t think I could confidently say that I’m in love myself…
Minamo: Why not? You do feel that way about him, don’t you?
ATRI: I have only just accepted that I’m able to feel emotions. I’m a beginner to this whole experience, so I don’t really know what I’m feeling.
ATRI: To be honest, I can’t rule out the possibility that this “love” is just an error in my programming caused by my mind’s breakdown drawing near.
Minamo: Hmm, I see. It’s tough to know your own emotions.
Minamo: I can see what you mean. I’ve had the same experience…
ATRI: …
Minamo: Hmm? What’s that face for?
ATRI: …You’re in love with Natsuki-san too, aren’t you?
Minamo: Huh!?
ATRI: It, umm, just kind of looks that way. I don’t have any particular evidence to base my suspicion on.
ATRI: But going by your behavior, it’s a possibility. Am I wrong?
Minamo: …
Minamo: Nope, you’re exactly right.
ATRI: I knew it.
Minamo: Don’t tell anyone, right? This is our little secret.
ATRI: Understood. I might have the ability to disobey orders, but I won’t break this promise.
ATRI: This means we’ll have to stop here, though. I read in those how-to guides that asking for relationship advice from someone in love with the same person is a grave breach of good manners.
ATRI: I will ask someone else. Hmm, Yoko does call herself an expect in all things romantic…
Minamo: You don’t have to worry about that. You’ve got the answer you wanted, haven’t you?
ATRI: Oh?
Minamo: If you could tell that I was in love, you must be able to understand what love feels like, right?
Minamo: I can tell you certain, you’re in love with Natsu-kun.
ATRI: I really do love him…?
Minamo: So, what are you going to do about it?
ATRI: What do you mean?
Minamo: If you’re in love with someone, you should tell them. If you let the chance escape you like I did, you’ll regret if for the rest of your life.
ATRI: The rest of my life… Even if it’s just four days, those are some really scary words.
Minamo: I love Natsu-kun, but I also love you too, ATRI-chan.
Minamo: So you know that nothing would make me happier than two people I love being happy together.
ATRI: Minamo… You really are the nicest person I’ve ever met.
ATRI: It makes me feel lucky to have met someone like you.
Minamo: So, what are you going to do!?
ATRI: Umm, err, I don’t really know if I need to do anything…
Minamo: You’ll never get anywhere in love if you’re afraid of getting hurt!
ATRI: I-I see…
Ryuuji: That Yasuda guy was a real piece of work.
A gentle breeze is blowing up on the rooftop, so gentle you wouldn’t possibly imagine what had occurred here yesterday.
Ryuuji: If I’d been there, I would have kiced his ass before he even had the chance to lay a finger on you.
While that incident was happening, Ryuuji was off having a meeting with our salvage client.
He ran to school as soon as Ririka told him what was happening, but it was all over by the time he arrived.
Ryuuji: How is ATRI doing?
Natsuki: She’s fine. She’s going club activities, if you want to see her.
She took enough punishment that ideally she’d be sent back to her manufacturer for repairs, but that’s impossible for a number of reasons.
Ryuuji: That’s good…
Natsuki: Thanks to this everyone’s going to know that she’s the Humanoid that caused that incident thirty-one years ago, though.
There are probably still people in this town who remember it happening.
Even if they don’t remember, if they find out that ATRI is a fugitive with a bounty on her head, it could be trouble.
I could hide her like my grandmother did, but she only has four days left.
I want those last days to be as normal as possible.
Ryuuji: Somehow I don’t think that’s going to cause too many problems, though.
Natsuki: What do you mean?
Ryuuji: I think you name has earned a little goodwill around here.
Natsuki: Err, if you say so.
I don’t quite know how far that goodwill will stretch, but Ryuuji know s this town well. I can probably trust his words.
Natsuki: How did the meeting go, by the way?
Ryuuji: The engineers gave the transformer substation a look over, and they said we should be able to use it. It’s still all hooked up to the grid.
Natsuki: So we’ll just need to connect it to Eden, and the whole town will be able to use it?
Ryuuji: Yep. We may as well give it a try.
Natsuki: That’s if Eden’s generations are still working, that is.
Ryuuji: So, what do you want to do? I’m ready to head out any time.
Natsuki: We’ll need to talk to ATRI first.
Ryuuji: Gotcha.
Ryuuji’s Voice: ATRI!
ATRI: Hmm, my sensors detect an idiot approaching!
Ryuuji: Who are you calling an idiot? You’re the one that got beat up yesterday. How are you feeling?
ATRI: Absolutely fine. It’s like nothing happened! I am high performance, after all.
Ryuuji: Really? I heard you were crying like a little baby.
ATRI: N-No I didn’t! Honestly, Natsuki-san, what are you telling people!?
Natsuki: Hey, it wasn’t me.
Minamo: Sorry, that was me…
Ryuuji: Well, it’s good to see you’re looking all right, at least.
ATRI: …Why are you even friends with this guy, Natsuki-san? It makes me doubt your judgement.
Natsuki: Shut your face. He might be kind of a lunkhead, but he’s a decent man.
Ryuuji: …Way to not pull your punches, dude.
Natsuki: Will the club be going for much longer?
Minamo: Nope, we’ve just finished. We were just revising the recipes we’ve done until now today.
ATRI: Yes, we’ve gone over everything, and I can manage it all again now.
I notice her log book is full of recipes. Looks like I’ll be eating well tonight.
Minamo: Go on, ATRI-chan.
She pushes herforward.
ATRI: I’m not ready… This is all so new to me…
Ryuuji: Jeez, you’re lame sometimes. If there’s something you wanna say, just say it.
Minamo: …
Ryuuji: Oww! Dammit, Minamo!
His face contorts as she pinches his side.
ATRI: Umm, Natsuki-san… There’s something of the highest importance I want to discuss with you…
Natsuki: Okay…?
What’s with that wording?
I wait for her to respond, but she seems to be struggling to speak.
ATRI: Umm, err…
Minamo: I think we’re probably getting in the way. We should leave.
Ryuuji: What? C’mon, I only just got here. Staying’s fine, right?
Minamo: No, it’s not. Let’s go, Ryuuji-chan. There’s something I wanted to talk about with you anyway.
Ryuuji: Hey, don’t push me like that!
Minamo shoves Ryuuji out of the classroom.
Minamo: (Do your best, ATRI-chan!)
ATRI: (Roger, President Minamo!)
Now that we’re alone, ATRI takes a deep breath.
ATRI: Hahhh… Phew.
ATRI: There’s, umm, something I have to tell you.
ATRI: I, well… Umm…
Her face burns bright red, and she stares down at the ground.
ATRI: (I can’t do it! I just can’t, President Minamo!)
This really must be something serious if she’s having so much trouble saying it.
I might have to be the one who moves things along.
Natsuki: Would you go somewhere with me right now?
ATRI startles and raises her head.
ATRI: Where to?
Natsuki: Anywhere. I just want to go somewhere with you.
ATRI: You mean… a date?
Natsuki: Well, I suppose you could call it that.
Her face flushes somehow even more red, and she averts her gaze again.
ATRI: O-Okay! Let’s go!
ATRI: …Ah!
She bolts for the door, only to shop in her tracks, looking down at her feet.
ATRI: Umm… Can I go back to the ship for a moment first?
Natsuki: Okay. Why, though?
ATRI: I need something. You can wait here, Natsuki-san.
With that, she sprints out of the room at full speed. It’s like she doesn’t want to waste a single second.
I decide to wait for her outside the school.
Natsuki: This is kind of fun, waiting for a girl to arrive for a date…
We normally spend so much time with each other that having this moment apart makes this whole experience feel so much more date-like.
Catherine: My, don’t you look happy.
Natsuki: …
Great. Here comes someone to spoil my mood.
Catherine: What are you doing standing around here?
Natsuki: I’m waiting for someone.
I don’t tell her it’s ATRI. It just feels kind of… embarrassing.
Catherine: Hmm…
Natsuki: Do you need something? If so, hurry up and tell me.
Catherine: Nah, I just saw you out of the window.
Natsuki: (Can’t this old soak leave me be? I don’t want her to know I’m waiting for a date…)
ATRI: Natsuki-saaaaaaaan!
ATRI comes running toward me, waving eagerly.
Catherine: Oh, so that’s who you were waiting for? Why didn’t you tell me?
Natsuki: Oh, no reason…
Catherine: Haha, I see what’s going on here…
She grins. Here comes some kind of humiliation…
Catherine: Anyway, this is good timing.
Natsuki: Huh?
ATRI: Sorry if I kept you waiting!
Natsuki: What did you need to go back to the ship for, anyway?
ATRI: Umm… Ahem…
Natsuki: …What?
I look her up and down, nonplussed. Catherine elbows me in the side with enough force to five me bad flashbacks to yesterday.
Catherine: (You blocked, look at her feet.)
Natsuki: Her feet? Ah!
Instead of her beaten-up old loafers, she’s wearing the new sandals I bought her.
Catherine: Have a little consideration, Mr. Dense.
Natsuki: Shut up, Mrs. Drunk.
I suppose I should thank her, but no.
Natsuki: Ahem… ATRI?
ATRI: Yes?
Natsuki: Those sandals are really cute. They suit you perfectly.
ATRI: Hehehe… Thanks!
ATRI: I thought I may as well wear them, seeing as this is a date.
Catherine: Ohoho…
Natsuki: Let’s go. There’s a certain someone here ruining the atmosphere.
Catherine: Hold on a second.
Catherine takes a step closer to ATRI.
Catherine: I, well… I want to apologize for what happened yesterday, and for telling you not to come to school. I’m sorry.
Catherine: I put everyone in danger by not trusting you.
ATRI: You don’t have to apologize to me.
ATRI: Natsuki-san told me about how you were trying to protect both the other children and me.
Catherine: I failed, though. I tried to protect my students by cutting you out.
ATRI: But you said that I was one of your students too, didn’t you?
Catherine: Well…
ATRI: Thank you.
ATRI: Okay, let’s go!
ATRI takes my hand, bouncing up and down like an excited little kid.
Catherine watches us walk off with a troubled expression.
Catherine: There’s not a teacher around who wouldn’t love to have a student like you…
ATRI: Ehehe… Hehehe…
The two of us walk through the market district hand-in-hand, like we have many times before. Today, though, ATRI is grinning particular widely.
Natsuki: (A while back, she would have been bouncing around and signing, but she’s oddly quiet now…)
She really has changed since yesterday.
I’m going to say that’s good sign.
She’s aware of her own emotions, but she doesn’t quite understand how to deal with them yet.
This presents something of the chance for me.
Natsuki: (I’ll confess my feeling to her again, and tell her that I love her.)
This time, she’ll really understand how I feel.
Natsuki: (I’m sure it will go fine. She loves me too, I know it…)
ATRI: Ehehe… Hehe…. Hehehe…
I’m glad that Ryuuji gave me a little advice ealier…
Ryuuji: you gotta watch yourself, Natsu. Sometimes women give off this vibe that they’re into you, and then turn around and blow you off.
Ryuuji: You might pour your heart out to them, and they just go “Oops, sorry for giving you the wrong impression”!
Natsuki: (He sounds like he’s got experience with this…)
Ryuuji: You hear me? Come back alive, bro.
Natsuki: (I’m sure ATRI wouldn’t do that… Well, not “sure” as such, but…)
To be honest, when I confessed to her before I was only half-sure that she would feel the same way.
But when I told her I loved her yesterday…
Natsuki: No chance. I love you, you know? And a human always wants to protect the ones they love.
ATRI: Well, that’s a coincidence. Humanoids are exactly the same… *sniffle*…
That has to mean she loves me back, right?
Natsuki: (That has to outweigh what Ryuuji said, surely…)
There’s no way to know if she loves me in the same way I love her, though.
Natsuki: (I just have to be very, very careful how I do this.)
ATRI: Hmm…
While I’m lost in thought, ATRI stares at me absent-mindedly.
Natsuki: Huh? What’s that look for?
ATRI: Ah! Err, it’s nothing!
ATRI: (There’s something so cool about him when he’s thinking like that, I couldn’t take my eyes off him! Ahhh…)
Natsuki: Hm?
ATRI: Wh-Where are we going to go?
Natsuki: Well, I’m a little thirsty, so how about we go to a café? Or maybe-
ATRI: I want a fruit bar!
Natsuki: Oh yeah, you love those things, right?
The fruit bar ball stall is out in the market again today, selling all manner of delicious-looking skewers.
Natsuki: Which one would you like?
ATRI: I’ll have the pineapple one, it’s lovely and tart!
Natsuki: Okay, then I’ll have the melon.
We walk along chewing on the sweet fruit, exactly like on our first date.
ATRI: Mmmmm! It’s delicious!
Natsuki: Want to try the melon too?
ATRI: Okay, you can have some of my pineapple as well!
Ah, these fruit bars are the best. They quench your thirst, and they let you share a cute moment like this. Sweet in multiple ways…
Natsuki: (Thank you, fruit bar lady!)
I shouldn’t get ahead of myself, though. I can’t get carried away like I did on our first date.
ATRI: Mmm, *munch*… Ahh, delicious things really do make you happy.
ATRI: Hmm, that means I’m happy, doesn’t it?
ATRI: …
She falls silent, staring at the pineapple standing inertly on its stick.
ATRI: Are we sharing “happiness” right now, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: Indeed we are.
ATRI: I hope that’s true…
I remember those words my mother said to her.
“C’mon, smile. It’s weird if I’m the only one smiling!”
As harsh as they seem, I can understand how she felt.
I wanted to share so many happy and fun times with ATRI, knowing we were in love.
But it was all one-sided until now.
I’ve said even worse things to her than my mother.
And all this time ATRI was agonizing over her inability to share her emotions.
Even now, she’s struggling.
ATRI: Ow!
ATRI is so focused on chomping away at the pineapple that her foot catches on something, and she nearly topples over.
I’m just able to grab her and keep her upright.
ATRI: Sorry about that… It’s hard to walk in these sandals.
What they lack in utility they more than make up for in cuteness.
ATRI seems slightly annoyed by their impracticality, but she doesn’t seem to mind too much…
ATRI: Ah…
Natsuki: What’s up?
ATRI: I was just thinking… They do make me closer to you than normal.
She cutches onto me, face burning red.
Natsuki: (This has definitely got to mean she loves me!)
My heart sings, only to be roughly silenced by Ryuuji’s sad past.
Natsuki: (Calm down, Natsuki… You can’t assume a Humanoid like ATRI will obey the same kind of common sense as humans.)
If I don’t take care, I’ll end up heartbroken again.
Townsperson A: Ey up, you two look like you’re getting along well today.
A passing old man calls out to us.
Natsuki: Hello there.
ATRI: Helloooo!
This kind of thing happens frequently when I walk around with ATRI.
Townsperson A: Heard you got into a bit of a fuss yesterday, huh? You okay?
ATRI: I’m completely fine, as you can see!
Townsperson A: Anyone ever try to give you trouble again, you come to me, you hear? I’ll give them a piece of my mind.
ATRI: That would be great, thank you.
Natsuki: …
The whole town seems to know about what happened yesterday.
That probably means they know what happened all those years ago too.
Townsperson B: That’s right. We’re all on your side here, ATRI-chan.
Another man wanders over to us, followed by another. Soon, there’s a whole crowd thronging around us.
Every single person has kind words for ATRI.
Townsperson B: It’s a real surprise to find out that you’re that Humanoid from that incident, though.
Natsuki: You know what happened then?
Townsperson B: Of course, I was in elementary school back then. I was in a different class at the same place.
Townsperson B: I can see why it happened, though. There was some terrible bullying that went on in that place.
Townsperson B: I feel ashamed that I didn’t say anything…
ATRI: You don’t have to feel like that.
Natsuki: What happened to the child who she attacked?
Townsperson B: If I remember correctly, she moved away straight afterward.
Other people nod.
Townsperson A: Didn’t the teacher get reassigned somewhere too?
Natsuki: They did?
Townsperson B: Anyway, stop by the store some time, I’ll give you some freebies.
ATRI: Thank you, I’d love them!
Townsperson B: You take good care of her, you hear, young professor.
Townsperson A: Don’t you go makin’ her sad!
Natsuki: Yes, sir.
They’re all such friendly people.
Or maybe it’s being around ATRI that turns us all into happier people?
Natsuki: You really are popular around here.
ATRI: Heh, that’s just because of how high-performance I am.
ATRI worked her hardest to understand and replicate my mother’s emotions.
As a result, she managed to learn how to give at least the appearance of having feelings.
Now, she’s capable of expressing such a range of emotions.
There’s a certain irony to the fact that it took such terrible things to learn all this, for the harvest to be reaped only after she lost her master.
ATRI: …What’s wrong? You look sad.
Natsuki: I wat just thinking about everything you’ve gone through. Here, have some melon.
ATRI: Okay… *munch*! Mmm, it’s so sweet!
We leave the market, and head for the park.
Natsuki: As pleasant as it is to have everything talking to us, I wish they wouldn’t do it in the middle of our date.
All the time we were in the market we were getting called out to every few seconds.
Natsuki: It’s nice and quiet here, though.
There are some families and children running about, but the park is large enough that we’re relatively undisturbed.
ATRI walks over to the waterside.
She slips off her sandals, and dips her toes into the gently-lapping waves.
ATRI: Hehe, it’s so nice and cool.
She kicks up a great splash of water.
The glistening droplets arc through the air, sparkling in the summer sun.
ATRI: Water reflects so many colors!
Shea kicks up splash after splash, delighting in the myriad tones of the ocean.
ATRI: You can see the sky, and the clouds, and all the flowers and the trees, and the buildings…
ATRI: The world is so full of color, isn’t it?
Natsuki: Are you only just realizing that? Your optical sensors are supposed to be far more sensitive than human eyes, and you never took a proper look before?
Human eyes only have a limited range of wavelengths that they can pick up.
ATRI’s eyes, however, can switch modes in order to pick up everything from infrared light to ultraviolet.
ATRI: I saw them before, but I never “felt” them.
ATRI: Looking at the world like this really makes me feel like I do have a heart after all.
ATRI: All of its colors are sparkling so much…
Even if she was receiving the data from her optical sensors, she wasn’t conscious of how they could make her feel.
Now that she’s aware of her emotions, she can finally appreciate the beauty of the world.
Right now, she’s learning that at a great speed.
Natsuki: Wonderful, isn’t it?
ATRI: Yes!
ATRI: It’s not entirely good, though…
Natsuki: Oh?
ATRI: All of the bad things I’ve been through are coming back me too, and I can finally feel them as well…
Natsuki: Don’t think about Yasuda now. He just wanted someone to blame for his own failure.
A person like that, so full of heard, often has a deep well of emptiness inside themselves.
I would know, as someone who ran away to this town trying to blame the entire world for his own patheticness.
A man just trying to protect his own heart from breaking under the weight of his sadness and the trouble he’d faced.
Maybe I could have become a shell just like Yasuda.
ATRI: Oh, him. I don’t care about him, I gave him the beating he deserved.
She kicks the waves again, this time in anger. Seems like she’s still mad at him.
Natsuki: (Remind me not to get on her bad side…)
Natsuki: So what do you mean, the “bad things”?
I can’t think of anything from today she could be talking about.
ATRI: Shiina-sama…
Natsuki: My mother?
ATRI: I just never understand until now.
ATRI: What she said to me when I hurt that girl…
“I didn’t want this…”
“You monster…”
ATRI: She glared at me with real fear in her eyes.
ATRI: I always wondered why she looked at me that way.
ATRI: She hated me, didn’t she?
Natsuki: Wasn’t she just scared? She was frightened of you.
ATRI: No, I understand now, she hated me.
ATRI: She called me a monster as I was being dragged away. She wasn’t worried about me even one bit.
She smiles bleakly, a tear forming in her eyes.
She doesn’t seem to realize as it trickles down her cheek.
I don’t think she even realizes that she’s sad. She’s just not used to having this well of emotions inside herself yet.
Natsuki: …
At this rate, she’ll live out her last days in misery.
I haven’t saved her yet.
I’ve just helped her to discover her own emotions.
That’s no good if the only emotion she’s feeling is sadness.
Natsuki: Oh yeah, wasn’t something you wanted to talk to me about?
She suddenly freezes up.
ATRI: W-W-Well, that’s, umm…
She stare down at the ground, fidgeting with the hem of her skirt.
ATRI: I, umm… Natsuki-san, I…
ATRI: Gah… It’s nothing!
She turns away and squats down, holding her head in her hands.
Her skirt dips into the lapping waves.
ATRI: (Argh, I’m such a useless piece of scrap! I’m sorry, President Minamo!)
Natsuki: In that case, let me say something instead.
ATRI: Oh? What is it?
Natsuki: I lo-
At the moment I open my mouth, a ball comes rolling over to her.
One of the children playing nearby runs over to pick it up.
ATRI: Here you go.
She hands it to him, and he runs off towards his mother.
She waves over at us.
ATRI: …
ATRI stands motionless, staring over at them.
Natsuki: ATRI?
ATRI: …Umm, can we go home now?
She slips her feet into her sandals.
ATRI: …
We walk in silence back through the market.
ATRI hasn’t said a word since we saw the young family in the park.
Minamo: Oh, Natsu-kun, ATRI-chan.
We run into Minamo, walking through town holding a shopping bag.
Minamo: Perfect timing. I’ve got something I wanted to talk to you both about.
Natsuki: Hmm, what’s that?
Minamo: I was talking with this about Ryuuji, and we’re thinking of doing a farewell party for ATRI-chan.
ATRI: A farewell party…?
Minamo: Yeah, we’ll hold it at school. We’ll make loads of food, and-
ATRI: N-No!
ATRI suddenly scream out.
Minamo: ATRI-chan?
ATRI: I don’t want that!
She sprints off.
Natsuki: ATRI!
It’s no use. She’s already out of sight.
Natsuki: Sorry about that, since she opened up to her emotions she’s been a little… highly-strung.
Natsuki: We should hold a party for her, though. I’m sure it’ll make her happy.
Minamo: Yeah. Still…
She glances down at the ground, sighing.
Minamo: It might be really sad. I don’t want it to end up that way…
Natsuki: …
To have people say goodbye to you is a proof that you were alive in the first place.
But at the same time, knowing that the end is coming may well make for a miserable party.
Natsuki: In that case, how about this?
Minamo: …?
Natsuki: I’m back.
Natsuki: ATRI?
She’s curled up in a corner on the deck, holding her knees in her arms.
Natsuki: There you are…
ATRI: I’m sorry, I left you alone. I’m a failure of a leg.
Natsuki: Shall teach you about what people do when they’re upset?
ATRI: What do they do?
Natsuki: They mope around and grumble out all of their problems. It doesn’t exactly solve them, but it makes you feel a little better.
I sit down next to her.
ATRI: I… I won’t be able to spend the future with you, Natsuki-san.ATIR: I’m going to have to leave you so soon…
ATRI: And I don’t want that.
ATRI: It’s just… If everything is going to hurt so much, maybe it would be better for me to have no feelings after all.
Natsuki: I’ve thought the same thing a thousand times. Especially since I fell in love with you.
Natsuki: I’ve sometimes thought that it would have been better if I never felt this way. But to be honest, if you asked me, I can say this for sure: I’m glad I fell in love with you.
ATRI: Why? Aren’t you going to be really, really sad?
Natsuki: I really don’t know why.
Natsuki: I though a similar thing almost every day after the tunnel collapse, that I would have been better off dying.
ATRI: No way!
Natsuki: You were the one that saved me back then, weren’t you?
ATRI: Indeed… You reached out your hand for me, and I pushed away the concrete and pulled you out.
ATRI: But I was a fugitive, so I had to leave you and run away…
Natsuki: That’s why I never realized until yesterday.
I take her hand.
Natsuki: Holding your hand always makes me feel so at ease.
ATRI: I’ve known you for such a long time now, I realize. Only as someone that Shiina-sama cared for, though.
Natsuki: …So you’ve been watching over me since I was a kid?
According to her logs, she even prevented another car accident for me.
ATRI: The first time I saw you, I thought that she had bought another Humanoid.
ATRI: I couldn’t understand it. You were so small, you’d be of absolutely no use around the house.
Natsuki: Well, obviously, I was a baby. They’re not known for their usefulness.
ATRI: They get bigger though, don’t they, those small humans?
She strokes my head. It sends tingles through my entire body.
Natsuki: Do you think it would have been better if I died back in the tunnel?
ATRI: That’s silly question. You still have a future, Natsuki-san.
ATRI: I, however, am not in it.
Natsuki: Do you really think a future is such a valuable thing?
ATRI: …
ATRI: As long as your future has possibilities, it has more value than the past.
Better a bright future than a dark past, I suppose…
She’s been through so much. Her own master hated her. It’s natural that she might seek to throw away the past entirely.
Natsuki: To be honest, there was somewhere I wanted to go today. It’s a little late, though, so we’ll go tomorrow.
ATRI: Where?
Natsuki: You’ll find out, don’t you worry. Has talking made you feel a little better?
ATRI: Slightly. Having feelings really is tough sometimes…
Natsuki: Tell me about it. Still, if there’s anything worse than feeling sad, it’s feeling hungry. It’s just about time for dinner.
ATRI: Oh, I forgot to do the shopping…
We were going to stop by the store on the way home, but she ran back alone.
Natsuki: Don’t worry, we’ve got ingredients.
I peeked a look at her recipes, so I know what she needs.
ATRI hurriedly wipes away her tears, and springs to her feet.
ATRI: Okay, leave it to me! I’ll make something really delicious that will brighten up your sad, lonely life!
Natsuki: Did you have to put it like that? It’s not been that bad…
ATRI makes a fantastic dinner, that succeeds in brightening up my sad, lonely life.
The next day…
I fire up the ship’s engine, and get ready to take to the seas.
Natsuki: Cast off the mooring lines!
ATRI: Roger!
ATRI undoes the ropes connecting the ship to the pier.
The engines get up to speed, and we weigh anchor.
Rather than heading out into deep waters, we follow the coastline.
We can see the school, and the road we take to get to class every day.
There’s a strange peace to seeing all of these familiar places from the ocean.
ATRI: …
ATRI sits next to me in the cockpit, looking bored.
ATRI: Where are we going?
Natsuki: You’ll see.
ATRI: Hmph…
She seems a little uneasy.
Natsuki: Oh yeah, what did you want to talk to me about, anyway?
ATRI: Ah!?
Natsuki: You said yesterday that you had something to tell me.
She suddenly starts to fidget in her seat.
ATRI: I-I’ve completely forgotten what I was going to say. I’ve had such a bad memory lately.
Natsuki: Oh come on, you’re fooling no one with that.
I stare at her, silently waiting for an answer.
ATRI: Ack…
ATRI: Umm, err…
She fidgets even more uneasily, not saying a word.
Several minutes pass.
Natsuki: We’re almost there.
ATRI: O-Oh, really? Umm… Then what I want to say can wait.
ATRI: Ahh, what a shame, I really want to tell you now, but y’know how it goes sometimes…
Natsuki: If you really want to, go ahead.
ATRI: Oh no, it can wait!
Natsuki: (Is it really something that hard to say?)
What on earth could she want to tell me? It’s making me a little nervous.
Natsuki: It should be around here.
I check my map, and drop the anchor.
We’re a little further out to sea than before, enough that the coast is far in the distance.
ATRI: Are we going to dive? I should change into my swimsuit…
Natsuki: No need, we’ll both be going down in the sub.
ATRI: Oh…
I open the hatch of the Serpens Albus.
Natsuki: Can you unhook the crane for me?
ATRI: Roger!
The two of us climb into the sub together.
ATRI: This is the first time I’ve been inside here.
Natsuki: Oh yeah, now that I think about it, it is.
ATRI: It’s really cramped in here. I’m squashed up against you…
ATRI: Was this your objective all along? I’m sure this technique came up in those materials President Minamo lent to me…
ATRI: I guess I should expect these kind of high-level moves from someone as intelligent as you, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: That’s not what’s going on here!
I mean, I am glad to be so close to her, but that’s just a happy side benefit.
Natsuki: Okay, let’s set out.
I purge the ballast tanks, and the sub sinks into the ocean in a flurry of bubbles.
The water turns a deep navy as the light of the surface gets further and further away.
The hull lets out little squeals of pain as we dive.
ATRI: Isn’t this a little bit too creaky? It seems to be very old, this submarine. Is it really okay?
Natsuki: …
ATRI: …Why aren’t you answering me?
Natsuki: Because I really don’t know the answer to that question.
Dark, cramped, quiet spaces like this still terrify me.
I don’t want to think about what the water pressure down here could of if the hull gave up the ghost.
ATRI: I’d be fine if this flooded, but you would drown.
ATRI: I’d save you, though.
She clings onto my arm.
Natsuki: (Tsk, I’m actually reassured by that. I’m a real sap.)
ATRI: So, where are we going?
Natsuki: I told you, you’ll find out.
ATRI: Hmph… Where could it be? I can’t wait…
ATRI: Ah, are we going crab-hunting again! It’s got to be that, right?
ATRI: Ahh, crab is so yummy! Let’s bring home a huge catch for everyone!
Natsuki: Unfortunately, that’s not quite where we’re going.
ATRI: Aww, there’s not going to be any crabs?
She’s so disappointed, I kind of want to turn the sub around and head for crab heaven.
Natsuki: I made a promise, didn’t I? That I’d help you fulfill your master’s last order.
ATRI: Shiina-sama’s last wish…
Natsuki: Can you still not remember what it was?
Her old log should have filled in all of the gaps in her memory.
And yet, her last order wasn’t recorded in them.
We don’t have much time left.
ATRI: …
I’m starting to even think that she might already know what it was.
But she can’t tell me, either because it’s impractical or impossible.
Natsuki: I asked you before exactly when you got the order, right?
ATRI: Umm, yes…
Natsuki: You got it in the tunnel, didn’t you?
That’s what the notebook said.
It was just before my mother’s death.
Natsuki: If it’s not too hard, can you tell me some more details?
ATRI: Wow, another fine piece of thinking. I’m falling for you more and more.
Muttering to herself, she wraps her arms around my head.
I was kind of just expecting her to talk to me normally…
Not that I’m complaining.
ATRI: Shiina-sama held onto me like this, really right.
Natsuki: Umm, there’s another thing I wanted to ask.
She doesn’t seem to be letting go of me any time soon.
ATRI: Yes?
Natsuki: This was after the tunnel had collapsed, right?
ATRI: Yes.
Natsuki: And my mother held you like this?
ATRI: Yes…
She closes her eyes, thinking back to that time…
The tunnel was pitch black, but I could make out the shapes of humans and objects with my optical sensors.
Several cars had been flattened, with no survivors.
I walked further into the tunnel, seeking Shiina-sama.
When I did, I heard a voice.
Shiina: Natsuki… Where are you? Natsuki…
It was Shiina-sama’s voice.
ATRI: Shiina-sama…
I hesitated.
Making contact with her like this might cause her problems. I am a fugitive, after all.
Shiina: Where are you, Natsuki? Please, answer me…
ATRI: …
Shiina: Natsuki?
ATRI: …
The moment I touched her hand, she grabbed me and pulled me in to her.
Shiina: Natsuki… So you’re safe…
ATRI: I am not Natsuki. I am ATRI, Shiina-sama.
I clearly clarified who I was, but she did not let go.
Shiina: Natsuki… I’m so glad…
She held onto me desperately in relief.
I realized that she could not hear anything.
She still believed I was Natsuki.
Shiina: Listen, Nasuki… When I’m gone, you’re going to have to live with your grandma…
Shiina: You won’t have to worry about anything. You’ve got the blood of wonderful, clever people running through your veins…
Shiina: Study lots… Make lots of friends, and treat them well… You hear me?
ATRI: …
Knowing that she couldn’t hear, I simply nodded.
Shiina-sama smiled a relieved smile.
And then…
Shiina: ATRI… You’re there, aren’t you, ATRI!?
She called out for me.
ATRI: I’m here, Shiina-sama.
Shiina: I know that you’ve been watching me since you escaped. Did you want to take revenge for me abandoning you?
ATRI: No, that’s not right.
Shiina: Or, do you still…
ATRI: I exist to help my master. That is all.
Shiina: Listen, ATRI. From now on, this is your master…
ATRI: This… is me, though?
She pointed to the person in her arms…
Shiina: Do you hear me, ATRI!?
ATRI: I hear you.
Knowing that my voice wouldn’t reach her, I trapped her on the shoulder.
Shiina: Ah!
Shiina: ATRI… You’re really there…
ATRI: Yes, I am.
Shiina: Please… Take care of Natsuki. Watch over him like you did me.
I trapped her on the shoulder again, and she went quiet for a moment.
Shiina: …Are you still there?
I tapped again.
Shiina: If I get out of here… I… I want to…
ATRI: You want to what?
Shiina: Since then… I… I always…
Shiina: Do you remember… That place… We walked there…
Shiina: I want to talk with you again… So wait for me there…
I trapped her shoulder again.
ATRI: I understand, Shiina-sama.
ATRI: …She died seconds later.
Natsuki: You kept company as she went…
My mother held her, mistaking her for me.
Unable to see or hear anything, in that moment of bottomless despair, she called out for me…
ATRI: Natsuki-san?
I feel the tears streaking down my cheeks.
Natsuki: Sorry, I was just thinking about it all, about how she thought of me until the very end…
Natsuki: I screamed out, reaching for her, but she couldn’t hear me, or come to save me…
Natsuki: I felt like she’d abandoned me…
Natsuki: But she never did.
ATRI wipes away my tears, still holding onto me.
Her gentle touch gives me a sudden realization.
Natsuki: …Haha, so that’s why you’ve always been so good at hugs. You learned from my mother.
ATRI: Yes, this was exactly the way Shiina-sama held me.
All along, it was the same embrace as my mother’s.
ATRI: The new master Shiina-sama intended for me must have been you.
Natsuki: It sure seems like it.
ATRI: But at the time, all she said was “this is your new master,” while holding me. I was extremely confused.
ATRI: However, I was high performance enough to deduce that she was referring to you, heh.
I remember now. When I salvaged her…
ATRI: I see. So you’re…
ATRI: For some reason, I felt like that was the case from the first time I say you, under the water. I should have known.
A Humanoid always recognizes its master.
Even with her memories missing, she was able to remember me.
Natsuki: I probably should have guessed that from how quickly you accepted me as your master back then.
A Humanoid shouldn’t be able to change who their master is from someone else simply telling them their former master is dead.
ATRI: Ehehe…
ATRI grins happily, still keeping my head in her arms.
I very much want to stay like this, but while we’ve been talking we’ve arrived at our destination.
Natsuki: There it is.
ATRI: Oh?
ATRI: This is…
Before us stretches out an incredible undersea landscape.
Old country roads and shimmering sand, tinted blue by the hue of the sea.
And here, a small cliff, which used to look down on a picturesque coast, now underwater.
The place where I met ATRI.
Natsuki: Look, the lighthouse is still standing.
Natsuki: I’ve always wondered what it would look like down here, but it hasn’t really changed, has it?
ATRI: …
ATRI stare out at that old, familiar landscape through the glass.
Natsuki: My mother’s last order was to come here, wasn’t it?
She shakes her head.
ATRI: No… It was to wait for her here.
Natsuki: I see. So that’s why you were here that time.
When I rolled my wheelchair up the hill, toward a desperate end to the despair that had filled the gap left by all I’d lost, there was already someone there.
I saw the back of a girl with long, silver hair, fluttering on the ocean breeze.
There was such an air of melancholy about her that in that moment, I almost forgot my own sadness.
She was there, waiting for someone who would never come.
ATRI: …Why did you bring me here.
Natsuki: In order to fulfill your last order, of course.
ATRI: It’s impossible, though. It doesn’t matter how long we wait, Shiina-sama isn’t coming.
ATRI: You… You shouldn’t have done this. All you’ve done is make me sad again…
Tears pour down her cheeks.
She really must be in touch with her emotions to be able to cry so easily.
Natsuki: This place has always been special to me too, since before I met you.
ATRI: Really? Even before then?
Natsuki: Whenever I came to see my grandmother when I was little, my mother would bring me here.
Natsuki: I’ve always loved the view from here.
Natsuki: My parents’ relationship was… strained. My father was obsessed with his plan to restart space exploration.
The never divorced, but they may as well have. Even as a child, I could tell that.
Natsuki: Whenever my mother was sad, she would come here.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: I remember, when I was six, she taught me that song.
Shiina: You know, whenever I’m feeling down, I like to sing this song.
Natsuki: Why?
Shiina: It… It makes me feel like I’m not alone.
Shiina: When I was little, I had a friend. She sang it with me.
Natsuki: Oh…
Shiina: But then, I did something horrible to her.
Natsuki: What did you do?
Shiina: She got angry on my behalf, and I just let it happen. I betrayed her.
Shiina: But even now, she looks over me.
Natsuki: …”Even now”?
Shiina: Yse, I’m sure she’s around here somewhere.
Natsuki: …
Shiina: Oh, you don’t have to be afraid. She’s not some kind of scary monster.
Shiina: I’m sure she’ll help you out when you’re in trouble. She’s a little awkward, but she’s a good person, with a good heart.
Natsuki: If I called out for her, would she come?
Shiina: Hmm… Maybe.
Natsuki: Then I’ll give it a try!
Shiina: That would be nice. One day, we’ll can for her, and I’ll apologize, and then…
Natsuki: Why do you think she told you to come here?
ATRI: …I’ve never thought about why.
Natsuki: Well, it’s just like she said to me. She wanted to apologize to you.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: She wanted to make up with you, and be friends again.
ATRI: But shea hated me…
Natsuki: You should be able to understand now. It can take people a while to process their trauma when they go through something terrible.
The incident, and the horrendous bullying that set it all off.
The friend she lost, who was just trying to protect her. Her own failure to stand up for ATRI.
No elementary school kid should have to deal with all of that alone.
It was only year later as an adult that she could truly come to terms with it all.
Natsuki: She told me that you were a good person.
Natsuki: She understand that you only angry for her sake.
ATRI: I… *sniffle*…
ATRI: But… Discovering that now, it just makes me even more sad…
ATRI: My entire life, that’s all there has been… I know nothing but sadness…
It’s like there’s nothing at all in her past that she thinks of as worthwhile.
But I know that’s not the case.
Natsuki: Do you know why you’re able to understand what “sadness” is, ATRI?
She shakes her head.
Natsuki: …It’s because you already know what “happiness” is.
ATRI: I know… happiness?
Natsuki: Yes. You were sad because you’d lost those happy times. If you do not know happiness, how can you know sadness?
Natsuki: Think back to those times. Why were you so sad?
ATRI: I… Hic… I…
ATRI: I was… I was so happy with Shiina-sama… And it hurt so much to lose that…
ATRI: If I’d… Hic! If I’d just realized sooner…
ATRI: I really am just a piece of scrap! Hic… WAAAHHHHHHHHH!!!
Happiness only exists because there is sadness. Who could know one without the other?
The greater the happiness, the deeper the sadness when it’s taken away.
The proof of the happy times she spent with Yachigusa Shiina are there in every single one of ATRI’s tears.
Natsuki: Can I ask something of you, ATRI? Can I… Can I hear you sing, once more?
Natsuki: Sing the song that my mother sang.
ATRI: Please, wait a moment… I need to catch my breath… *sniffle*…
She wipes away her tears, and takes a deep breath.
There’s something so adorable about seeing a robot trying to control her emotions like this.
ATRI: Ahem… Here I go.
She sings the song I first heard all those years ago.
The understand landscape before me sparkles, fading back to that time.
My mother takes me by the hand, and walk with me. The gentle waves bask in the golden light of the evening, and the lighthouse shines out into the distance.
Natsuki: C’mon, Mom! Quickly!
Shiina: Calm down, Natsuki. The sea isn’t going anywhere.
Maybe this was why she sang with ATRI here.
In the hope that one day they would be reunited.
Here, with all their happy memories of the friendship they shared.
When she finishes her song, the seas fade back into darkness.
This spot now lies at the bottom of the ocean. I will never walk hand-in-hand with her here again.
ATRI: Ah… Hic… *sniffle*…
Natsuki: Does it hurt to remember?
Maybe this was something I shouldn’t have dredged up from the past…
But ATRI shakes her head.
ATRI: I… I love you, Natsuki-san.
ATRI: In the same way that you love me…
Natsuki: …Thank you, ATRI. I love you too.
My heart swells with joy, but it also aches to see her cry.
Natsuki: But… Why do you look so sad?
ATRI: That’s obvious… It’s… It’s already almost over… Hic…
ATRI: I don’t want to die! I… I want to stay with you, Natsuki-san!
Natsuki: ATRI…
ATRI: I… WAAAAHHHHHHH!!!
She buries her head in my chest, and wails like a baby.
ATRI: If I didn’t have a heart, it could all end without me having to feel this…
ATRI: If I didn’t love you so much, this wouldn’t be so painful…
She weeps and wails, cursing the fates.
Crying out every last drop of sadness.
ATRI: …*sniffle*, hic…
Even when we return to the surface, ATRI is still sobbing.
ATRI: …I feel like I’ve been crying all the time lately.
Natsuki: That’s what happens when your emotions get the best of you.
ATRI: I need to learn to control them…
Natsuki: No, I don’t think that’s necessary. You’ve got a lot of lost time to make up for.
ATRI: If I can’t control my emotions, doesn’t that make me no better than an animal? I’m supposed to be the height of human technology!
ATRI: Even if I do have a heart, I’m still a robot! I have to have pride in my high-performance-ness!
Natsuki: I love you, ATRI.
ATRI: Wh-Whaaa!? Wh-Why are you saying that, all of a sudden? You can’t just sneak-attack me like that, grr…
Natsuki: I invited you out on this date because I wanted to tell you that.
Natsuki: But I ended up getting beaten to the punch.
I said I loved her when we were caught up in the moment, but it was hardly the proper confession I was hoping for.
ATRI: Hehe, I guess I win! ♪
Natsuki: Pssh, You’ve won nothing. If you could quantify love, I’m pretty sure we’d find I love you more.
ATRI: Tsk, not a chance! I definitely love you more!
Natsuki: Nope, I do!
ATRI: I do. I love you thiiiiiiiiis much!
She stretches her arms out.
Tsk, I’m not losing this battle.
Natsuki: Then I love you this much!
I throw my arms out too, but I have my stick to add to the width.
ATRI: Grrr, then I love you thiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-
She runs from one side of the deck to the other with her arms open wide.
ATRI: -iiiiiiiiiiiisss…
…
She comes to a sudden stop, and crashes onto the deck, unconscious.
Natsuki: ATRI? ATRI!
I rush over and grab hold off her. There is no light in her eyes.
Natsuki: ATRI! Wake up, ATRI!
ATRI: …
ATRI: Natsuki-san? Huh? Why do you look so serious? What’s happened?
Natsuki: You suddenly collapsed. You’re not hurt, are you?
ATRI: …
She stretches, checking her joint, then falls silent for a moment.
ATRI: I… I had something I need to tell you…
Natsuki: Yeah?
ATRI: When you took me there, to that place below the sea…
ATRI: Did I tell you it?
Natsuki: Oh…
Doesn’t she remember what just happened?
Natsuki: Yes, you did. You told me exactly how you feel.
ATRI: Oh… Really… Hehe, it’s kind of embarrassing…
Natsuki: You told me your love for me is deeper than the ocean itself, as raging as the waves…
ATRI: Huh!? Did I really say it like that!?
Natsuki: You were holding your arms out, and spinning, and saying something about loving me for as long as the world turns…
Natsuki: Oh yeah, and you also said you couldn’t live if you didn’t sleep in my arms tonight.
ATRI: I-I even said that!?
ATRI: …
ATIR: …Are you telling the truth? This isn’t some kind of trick, is it?
Natsuki: I may have slightly embellished some of details…
ATRI: Grr, I should have known. Another clever plot. You almost had me fooled.
She glares at me, and scrambles away.
Seems like she’s recovered, at least.
Natsuki: So, umm, is there anything in that story you’re adamant to deny? Like, say, not being up for a cuddle?
ATRI: It’s still the afternoon. It’s too early to go to bed.
Natsuki: Then how about later?
ATRI: Umm… I-I’ll think about it.
I raise the ship’s anchor, and fire up the engine.
As I drive us away from that special spot, ATRI remains at a distance. It looks like she wants to come closer, but every time I look over at her she turns away.
ATRI: What is this strange feeling? I want to snuggle up to him, but… I just can’t…
I chuckle to myself at her adorable hesitation. Personally I’d love it if she threw herself at me and cuddled up to me all day, but alas.
Natsuki: Anyway, there’s something I wanted to talk to you about.
ATRI: Wh-What is it?
Natsuki: No need to flinch like that. I’m not going to tell you that I want to take a nap with my head in your lap or anything.
ATRI: R-Really? Well, umm, I might not turn that down if you asked…
Seriously? I’ll have to remember that for later.
Natsuki: I wanted to talk to you about hooking Eden up to the electricity grid, and transmitting power to the town.
Natsuki: The local government has asked us to connect the undersea cable, and get Eden online.
ATRI: Oh, a salvage job? That sounds great, it’ll be a real earner!
Natsuki: I want to get it done pretty soon, but it’s not like we can’t wait a couple of days to get started.
Natsuki: How about it?
ATRI: …
I’m sure that before ATRI would have jumped at the chance.
Right now, though, she’s hesitating.
I suppose she’s torn between wanting to use what little time she has left working with me, or taking the time to enjoy her own personal whims.
ATRI: What will happen if we manage to connect Eden?
Natsuki: It’ll bring light back to the whole town. If things go well, that is.
If there’s enough power, we might even be able to have a nice, cold drink sometime.
Natsuki: It doesn’t have to be right away. We can go whenever you want.
ATRI: …Can I have some time to decide?
Natsuki: Okay.
To tell the truth, without ATRI the whole plan might be difficult to pull off.
In order to connect the cable to Eden, we’ll need someone to work underwater.
ATRI should be able to do it fine, but if she’s not there then we’ll have to employ a specialist diver.
But I’m not going to demand ATRI sacrifice her last days for us, though. She’s already given enough for everyone.
It’s almost evening by the time we arrive back.
ATRI: I’ve made my decision.
ATRI makes a sudden declaration.
She’s decided what we’re going to do about eden?
ATRI: I want to spend what time I have left filling my life with as much happiness as possible!
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Umm, I thought I’d get more of a reaction than that. It looks like I’ve managed to make you sad again in record time.
Natsuki: I just think it’s a little… “abstract.” Exactly what do you want to do?
ATRI: Hmm… Natsuki-san, make me happy! I want to try being happy.
Natsuki: Damn, you’re cute sometimes.
ATRI: …Hmm, still not the reaction I want.
Natsuki: Come on, any normal girl world love that.
ATRI: Normal’ is not enough for me. My outer appearance was designed to be the very height of cuteness.
Natsuki: (She’s even adorable when she’s bragging, damn…)
Natsuki: Well hello there, you high-performance little cutie. You look like you’d make for the best prosthetic leg a man could possibly get. You’re the only one for me!
ATRI: Oooh, that’s better! That’s just what I wanted!
Natsuki: …Okay, this is stupid. No more of that for you.
ATRI: Aww, why not!?
Natsuki: You should know that that’s not what “happiness” means.
ATRI: Then, what would make me happy?
Natsuki: Hmm, well, for example…
I look around. There’s a letter sticking out of the postbox.
I pull it out, and look it over.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: What’s that?
Natsuki: It’s a party invitation.
It’s from Minamo. She came all the way out here to deliver it.
ATRI: Oh… I said I wasn’t going to go to that, and I don’t want to go anyway. It’ll just be so sad…
Natsuki: You want to be happy, right? I think this would be perfect.
ATRI: Huh?
Natsuki: The party’s tonight. We’ve got a little time before then, so let’s take a nap.
Natsuki: My head in your lap, of course.
ATRI: Ah, that again!
She flushes bright red.
Natsuki: Come on, it’ll be nice. I’m tired from the dive.
ATRI: …Well, I suppose rejuvenating you is part of my job as your leg?
ATRI: Maybe? I think?
Natsuki: Legs can do a lot of stuff. This is more part of us being boyfriend and girlfriend, though.
ATRI: We’re boyfriend and girlfriend…
ATRI: You really are weird, wanting a robot for a girlfriend.
ATRI: Well, I suppose I can let you sleep on me. My lap is far more high performance than your normal pillow, I’m sure.
ATRI: But in return, I’m going to stroke your hair the whole time! Those are my demands, take them or leave them.
Natsuki: Well you’re twisting my arm, but, we have a deal.
I’m not seeing any negatives for me here.
Natsuki: You must be tired too, right? If you are, you can nap with me.
ATRI: I’m completely fine. I want to watch you sleep, so I’ll stay awake.
Hm?
I awaken to the sensation of a droplet falling on my forehead.
I look up from ATRI’s lap to find her staring up at the ceiling.
Natsuki: ATRI, are you crying again?
ATRI: Zzz…
Another drip hits me.
Hang on, this isn’t a tear…
Natsuki: Are you drooling on me!?
Outside, the sun is beginning to set.
Natsuki: ATRI, wake up. It’s almost time to go.
ATRI: …Hmmn?
ATRI: Hehe, it’s Natsuki-san… Mmm, good boy…
Natsuki: Don’t rub your face on me, you’re covering me in drool!
ATRI: Mmn, *slurp*… Ah!
ATRI: I’ve fallen into another one of your clever traps, haven’t I!?
ATRI: You’re far too smart and sneaky sometimes, aren’t you?
Natsuki: Yeah, yeah, just stop slobbering all over me!
There’s something reassuring about seeing her like this, messily wiping away her drool.
I’d assumed that, with nothing else to do, ATRI would fall asleep when I did.
Natsuki: (She should be all right to go to the party.)
I’m pretty sure that errors in her memory banks are what’s causing her freezes.
She’s seizing up when she’s unable to properly retrieve data from some parts of her memory.
It likely has some connection to her operational life coming to an end.
Sleep should allow her to defragment her memory banks and isolate corrupted memories to places that won’t be read from.
This should mean there’s less of a chance of her freezing up later.
The way that she’s been recalling her past is probably due to her finding memories that fill in the gaps between her accessible files and the corrupted ones.
Natsuki: (Now that her memories are degrading faster, just one period of sleep in a day won’t be enough to defrag them completely.)
Her current consciousness is reaching its last days…
Regardless of whether she realizes how bad her memory is getting or not, she seems determined to spend these last days as normally as possible.
ATRI: Do we need to prepare anything special?
Natsuki: It didn’t say anything on the invitation, so I don’t think so.
ATRI: I’m not going to get a fancy dress and a pumpkin carriage?
Natsuki: Unfortunately I don’t think my grandmother left me any of those.
ATRI: Okay, we’ll just get going, then.
Natsuki: Hold on a second.
I sit her down in a chair, and move behind her.
I take a brush and start to run it through her hair.
Natsuki: You hair’s all messy. I’ll just neaten it up a little.
ATRI: …Thank you.
Natsuki: What? Don’t you like me touching your hair?
ATRI: No… In fact, it’s the opposite. I think I’m happy.
Natsuki: Really?
ATRI: It’s only an estimation, but yes.
She doesn’t look particularly happy. She’s sitting completely stock still.
ATRI: Hmm, this does feel good. It’s a little ticklish, but it’s soothing.
Natsuki: My mother always used to sort my hair out in the morning like this.
ATRI: Shiina-sama did?
Natsuki: She said she liked the feel of people’s hair. Didn’t she ever do it for you?
ATRI: No, I did it for her. She always had such messy hair…
Natsuki: Hmm… I wonder if she did it for me because you did it for her?
ATRI: That might be the case.
Natsuki: …This feels a little weird now.
ATRI: It really does.
I finish brushing her hair, and tie her ribbons.
Natsuki: Right, we’re all ready.
ATRI: My enhance hair neatness will make me even more high performance at the party…
She mutters to herself proudly as she looks in the mirror.
Natsuki: Let’s go.
ATRI: Okay!
ATRI: Huh? There are no lights on.
The whole school is dark.
Natsuki: Hmm, the invitation definitely said today.
Natsuki: Let’s go inside.
I walk through the gloomy halls hand-in-hand with ATRI.
ATRI: Watch your step, Natsuki-san…
As soon as she says that, my foot catches on something.
Natsuki: Whoa!
ATRI: Ah… Are you okay?
Natsuki: Yeah, I’m fine.
ATRI: Honestly, you really would be in trouble without me!
Natsuki: Tsk, you could have warned me earlier.
I have a feeling this has happened before.
We finally reach the classroom.
Natsuki: Hmm, yeah, it’s dark. I don’t think anyone’s here.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: They might not have arrived yet, I suppose. I guess we’ll wait inside.
I open the door.
???: ATRI-chan…
Minamo: Happy birthday!
Ririka: Happy birthday, ATRI!
Tooru: Happy birthday!
Miyo: Happy birthday! ♪
We’re suddenly blinded by the lights turning on, and deafened by the sound of party poppers.
When our eyes get accustomed to the light, we see before us an array of familiar faces.
ATRI stares at them, confetti and ribbons hanging down from her head.
Minamo: Surprise!
Ryuuji: So surprised that you can’t even speak, huh?
ATRI: Umm, no. My optical sensors could see you even in the dark.
ATRI: My aural sensors also heard you saying “ATRI-chan here,” and “duck down a little bit more.”
ATRI: Heh, don’t underestimate how high performance my senses are!
Natsuki: …Dammit, I forgot about that!
ATRI: Huh? Why are you disappointed too, Natsuki-san?
Minamo: That’s because he was in on the surprise. ♪
Natsuki: Well, Minamo was the one that came up with the idea. I didn’t do much else.
All I’ve done is bring her here, really.
ATRI: What is a “birthday”?
Ryuuji: It’s the day you were born, obviously.
ATRI: …The day who was born?
Ririka: You, ATRI!
Natsuki: The YHN-04B series was released thirty-three years ago, in August. I don’t know which day exactly, but this is close enough, right?
Minamo: When Natsu-kun told me that, I thought it might be fun to turn this into a birthday party for you.
ATRI: Ah… I’m so sorry for how I reacted when you said you wanted to have a party! I was so rude!
Minamo: Oh no, it’s fine. I’m sorry too!
ATRI: You didn’t do anything wrong, though. I should have been grateful that you wanted to say a nice farewell to the likes of me…
ATRI: So this is a “birthday party”… What are we supposed to be celebrating? Why does it matter that it is my approximate date of creation?
Ririka: We’re celebrating your birth, of course!
Miyo: Everyone celebrates on their friends’ birthdays.
ATRI: Err…?
She looks completely bemused.
Natsuki: You being here has made everyone happy, so they want to celebrate.
Ryuuji: C’mon, get in the spirit of things, party pooper.
ATRI: Grr, I don’t want to be called a “pooper” by Ryuuji the Dummy, of all people!
ATRI: How am I supposed to enjoy myself, though? I’ve never done something like this before.
Minamo: Hehehe, don’t you worry about that! We’ve prepared all kinds of things to make you happy.
ATRI: Oh no, making me happy is-
Minamo: Ririka, fire up the stove!
Ririka: Aye aye, ma’am! Unleash the fire!
The pot on the stove, already prepared before we arrived, starts to bubble away.
Minamo: Ta-dah! Look what we’ve got all cooked up for you!
ATRI: Craaaaaaab!!!
ATRI: It’s crab, Natuski-san! Look!
Natsuki: …Why do you seem happier about some seafood than you did when I told you I loved you?
It’s more than a little dispiriting.
Ryuuji: It’s a party, so let’s have fun!
ATRI: Okay!
Minamo: Aww yeah, let’s party! ♪
And thus the Crab Worshipper’s Association Summer Party-Err, ATRI’s birthday party begins.
There is, thankfully, a lot more food available than just crab.
Since everybody has each brought something along, there’s also a huge pile of candy and drinks.
Everyone sits around happily chatting, eating, and generally having fun.
Everyone has given their presents to ATRI, and now Ryuuji is busy strumming away on his guitar.
Ryuuji: Man, being able to power an amp and rock out is the best!
The school is one of the only places in the town that you can use anything electrical. The only other places use gasoline generators, which are extremely expensive to run.
Ryuuji twiddles away on his “axe,” as he for some reason calls it, enjoying the fuzzy sound of the amplifier.
Natsuki: We don’t have infinite power, you know. Be careful.
Ryuuji: I know, I know, dude.
It might not be infinite, but our generator is far more efficient than it was when we first made it. All of the improvements we’ve made should mean it can last the whole night.
We’ve also brought the piano back downstairs. A party needs music, after all.
Natsuki: Hmm, maybe I’ll play something too.
Ririka: Oooh, you’re going to give us a tune?
Ryuuji: Oh, sweet. Let’s jam, dude.
The two of us play together, surrounded by our happily-celebrating friends.
One person, however, is conspicuously absent.
ATRI: Crab… I love you, crab. You’re so delicious…
ATRI is still busy stuffing herself.
Yoko: Minamo, I’m here!
Minamo: Oh, hi! You came!
Yoko: Of course I did. I’m not gonna miss ATRIcchi’s birthday, am I?
Yoko: Happy birthday, ATRIcchi!
ATRI: Oh, hi… *munch*…
Minamo: Haha, she’s, umm, a little busy right now.
Middle School Boy: Good evening!
Ryuuji: Hey there, you’re here too?
Middle School Boy: Yeah! It’s really exciting going out when It’s dark outside, isn’t it?
Ryuuji: Right, there’s not much nightlife around here.
As the evening goes on, more and more people turn up.
Not just students, either.
Townsperson A: Wow, you really do have electricity here!
Townsperson B: Ahh, it must be so nice to have light at night.
Even random adults from around town are drawn into the light like moths.
Natsuki: Did you tell the whole town about the party?
Minamo: No, but the word’s got out somehow. ATRI-chan’s a celebrity around here, after all.
This is her birthday party, but also her farewell party. It’s a last, precious chance to see her off.
So many people want to say their goodbyes that soon we’re unable to fit everyone in one classroom.
Natsuki: Hmm, where’s Catherine?
Minamo: I’m not sure. I did give Ririka an invitation to pass on to her.
Ririka: Umm, about Hana-chan…
Catherine: A birthday party for ATRI?
Ririka: Yeah! You’ve gotta come too!
Catherine: Sorry, but I’m not going to be attending. I don’t deserve to celebrate her birthday.
Ririka: So that’s what she said.
Natsuki: Oh, is she still upset about that?
Serious-minded teacher, or feckless drunkard? I really don’t know what to make of her sometimes.
ATRI: Catherine? She’s been standing over there for a while now.
Catherine: …
ATRI points over at the door, where an eye can be seen peering through the gap.
Catherine: Gah!
Natsuki: Hey, Catherine! Where are you going!?
Catherine: I-I was just on my way to my room to have a drink… Of tea, nothing more than that, ahem.
Catherine: I live here, you know? I am allowed to be here. It’s got nothing to do with the party.
Natsuki: Do you really have to be so stubborn? If you really feel sorry for how you treated ATRI, then go and celebrate with her.
Catherine: B-But…
ATRI: Don’t you want to celebrate my birthday, Catherine?
Clinging onto my arm, ATRI doesn’t waste any time getting to the heart of the matter.
ATRI: …
Catherine: Don’t look at me like that. I just don’t want to make things awkward.
Catherine: I want to let you celebrate in peace.
Catherine: You being born ended up changing my life too, after all…
ATRI: Ooh, really? Thank you!
ATRI: Come on, let’s go and celebrate with everyone. It’ll be much more fun that way! ♪
Catherine: H-Hey, don’t pull me-
ATRI eagerly drags a blushing Catherine toward the classroom.
Natsuki: Tsk, honestly…
Somes adults are more difficult to deal with than kids.
When Minamo and Ryuuji initially told me their plan, I assumed this was just going to be a small gathering of only the people closest to ATRI.
That was, at least initially, the idea of things.
But instead it’s ended up being a party for the whole town.
In just the short time since I pulled up from the bottom of the ocean, the people here have accepted ATRI, and she’s become a figure they’ll all miss.
Ryuuji: We’re gonna set off fireworks on the roof now!
Ririka: Aww yeah!
Ririka: I wanna do the one that explodes like, “wooosh”!
Tooru: I want the, like, “bang bang bang” one!
Ryuuji: Hold your horses, kids. If you’re gonna do fireworks, you’ve gotta do them right. You start with the ones you just hold in your hands.
Catherine: No, first you make sure you have a bucket of water to hand.
The fireworks were brought over by the owner of the toy shop in the market.
Minamo: Which do you want to set off, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: Hmm… I seem to remember playing with fireworks with Shiina-sama.
Minamo: Shiina-san?
Natsuki: Her former master, my mother.
Natsuki: So you did this with her?
ATRI: Yes, but I didn’t really know what to do. I just made Shiina-sama unhappy again.
It had said in her logs that my mother had wanted to enjoy playing with fireworks with ATRI at the time when she had no friends.
ATRI: What am I supposed to do?
Ryuuji: That should be obvious, right? You light ‘em up, and then just watch ‘em go bang.
ATRI: …What’s fun about that, exactly?
Ryuuji: The hell? Well… Natsu, you tell her.
Natsuki: Don’t ask me. I’ve never really played with fireworks much.
Maybe a couple of times with my mother as a child, but that’s it.
Natsuki: I never really had friends, after all.
They always used to say I took after my mother, and I definitely did in that respect.
Ryuuji: Pssh, you’ve got plenty of them now, though.
Natsuki: …Don’t look at me like I’m some kind of stray puppy. It’s never bothered me that much.
Ririka: This is how you do it!
Ririka lights a sparkler and brandishes it in front of herself.
It fizzles and sputters, giving off a scatter of rainbow-colored sparks.
ATRI and I, fireworks newbies as we are, watch with blank expressions.
Ririka: Howzat!?
ATRI: …
Natsuki: …
Catherine: Do you have to stand there looking like you’re looking at a deal dog’s corpse.
Natsuki: Well, that’s a simile that could put anyone in a party mood.
ATRI: I just don’t get it at all…
Minamo: If you just give it a try, I’m sure you’ll understand. Here, one each for you.
She hands us a sparkler each.
We light them on a candle and tips immediately burst into flames.
Natsuki: Whoa, these go off pretty hard. They aren’t going to burn my fingers, are they?
Ryuuji: Pssh, what are you so afraid of?
Catherine: Ugh, wimpy little brat…
Natsuki: Sh-Shut up! Animals are afraid of fire. It’s a natural instinct.
ATRI: …Pfft!
Natsuki: Hey, don’t laugh at me!
ATRI: So I guess this is how you enjoy fireworks.
…
Natsuki: …I suppose so.
Looking at her smiling face, I find it hard to disagree.
I gaze at her, illuminated by the glittering sparks. This must be the magic of fireworks.
Everyone around is smiling in wonder and surprise.
ATRI: Their faces look like brilliant, blooming flowers…
Natsuki: …Well, I guess a part of the human soul is as fascinated by fire as it is afraid.
Ririka: let’s set the rockets of next, Ryuuji-chan!
Ryuuji: Gotcha, I’ll make a launch platform. Pass me a bottle!
Ririka: Roger!
ATRI: Rockets? Are we launching something into space?
Ryuuji: Well, we’ll see about that.
Ryuuji sets about gathering up an assortment of fireworks.
Ririka: Got the bottle, Ryuuji-chan!
Ryuuji: Great, then we’ll leave the launch controls in the capable hands of our commander for the day, ATRI.
ATRI: Huh!? Is it really all right for me to do something so important!?
Ryuuji: All you’ve got to do is pull the stick of the rocket into the bottle…
ATRI: Okay… My heart’s racing already!
Ryuuji: Now you just light the fuse, and stand back.
ATRI: Okay, ready… T-minus three, two, one… I Ignition!
The rocket whizzes off into the air, and… BANG!
A tiny little flowers of fire sparkles in the night sky, at the head of a stem of light.
ATRI: Ooh… That’s a rocket!
ATRI: It reached a maximum height of approximately fifteen meters. Factoring in the height of the roof, I estimate that it is approximately 99.87 kilometers away from the Karman line.
Ririka: Put another one in, another one! I wanna light it this time!
Ryuuji: Hold on now, we’ll take it in turns.
We’ve got a lot of rockets to get through, enough for all of the children to have a go at lighting them.
ATRI: So this what a rocket is like… I’ve learned something.
Natsuki: There are lots of different kinds of rockets.
Minamo: That reminds me, it’s only three days until the launch, isn’t it?
That’s right, it’s three days until the rocket my father is involved with tries to make it to space.
Catherine: I’ll be watching it from the rooftop. All of you should come too.
Natsuki: Oh yeah, you said that you wanted all of the kids to see it.
Catherine: That thing might be some kind of hope for the future. We can use it as an opportunity for a lecture on rocket science or something.
Minamo: You want to watch it with us too, ATRI-chan?
ATRI: “Hope for the future”… Yes, I’d love to watch that.
As another rocket whooshes off into the sky, I feel like ATRI’s eyes are looking at something far more distant.
Ryuuji: Damn, is that all of them?
Ririka: We’ve still got this one left, Ryuuji-chan!
Ryuuji: Oh yeah, we saved that one for last. It’s our big finish.
Ryuuji: Okay, everyone get in position!
All of the assembled well-wishers gather on the roof.
Ryuuji: We’ve got one last big one left!
Ririka: Who’s gonna light it?
Ryuuji: Hmm… How about you, Natsu?
Natsuki: Why me?
Ryuuji: You’re the only one who hasn’t lit one yet. C’mon, send us all off!
Natsuki: I’m not great with this kind of thing…
I don’t like being stood in front of a bunch of people, and I don’t exactly like setting off huge explosions either.
Ryuuji: What are you talking about? You’re the reason we’re all here, dude.
Natsuki: I wouldn’t say that… ATRI, lend me a hand.
ATRI: Roger!
It’s impossible for me to bend down to the firework without ATRI there to support me.
Leaning on her, I light the fuse.
Natsuki: Here we go. Three…
Minamo: Two…!
Ririka: One…!
The fuse burns brightly.
Ryuuji: Stand back, folks!
Natsuki: ATRI!
ATRI: Roger!
ATRI pulls me up, and we scramble away from the firework.
As soon as we’re a safe distance away, it goes arcing off into the sky with a whinnying whine.
Then, for a moment, all is silent.
An enormous spray of glimmering sparks lights up the night sky.
ATRI: Whoaaaa… It’s so pretty…
Ryuuji: Phew, that’s a bigger!
Ririka: Wowwwwwww!
Minamo: It’s so beautiful…
Catherine: …
It fizzles in the sky with the sound of a hundred little sparkles. It’s small compared to the kinds that I saw at festivals as a child, but that makes it all the more precious.
Everyone stares at it in wonder.
It lasts only a brief moment, before fading away as if it never existed.
Ryuuji: Ahh, that was a hell of a lot of fun. Guess we’ve gotta clean up now, though.
Catherine: Make sure everything’s completely out. Put all your sparklers and such in the bucket.
With everything used up, we start to clear the trash away.
ATRI stands staring into the jet black sky.
ATRI: …I always though that goodbye could only be sad.
Natsuki: Hmm?
ATRI: It’s still sad to see it end, but… That’s only because it’s been so fun.
ATRI: If none of this had happened, I would have felt neither of those things…
Even as she gazes out into the complete darkness, I can still see a brilliant sparkle in her eye.
ATRI: So I knew happiness all along…
Natsuki: …
ATRI has completely forgotten the conversation we shared at the bottom of the sea.
Everything I said, and what she told me-“I don’t want to die.”
But I think that tonight, she has finally understand what happiness is.
ATRI: I… I’ve loved this place.
Saying farewell is only sad because the time that she spent here was special.
She doesn’t seem to quite have realized the real sentiment that lies beyond those words-not wanting to die.
But at least she has, if only for a moment, truly experienced what it means to be happy.
And in that brief moment, the days she spent here, learning together with everyone, gained meaning.
Ririka: See ya, everyone!
Ryuuji: Night, guys!
Catherine: Take care on the way back, okay?
Minamo: Good night!
As everyone walks home, people gradually splinter off. Eventually, the only people left are Minamo, ATRI, and I. A hint of loneliness begins to seep into the air.
Soon comes the time for Minamo to leave us alone.
ATRI: Thank you for holding a party for me, Minamo.
ATRI: I’m happy that so many people wanted to celebrate my birth with me.
Minamo: I’m happy that we had the chance to, as well.
ATRI: Thank you for everything else you’ve done as well. You’ve always been so nice to me.
Minamo: Oh, there’s no need to thank me. It’s too early for that, anyway. You’re going to watch the rocket launch together with us, aren’t you?
ATRI: …
ATRI silently shakes her head.
Minamo: Huh…? Why not? Natsu-kun…?
Natsuki: Why not, ATRI?
She should have just enough time left to watch it.
ATRI: I’m sorry, Minamo. This is goodbye.
Minamo: No way… I don’t want that! We’ve finally really become friends…!
ATRI: Please, don’t be sad. It will make me sad too…
Minamo: How could I not be? ATRI-chaaaaan!
Minamo throws her arms around ATRI and clings onto her.
Minamo: WAAAHHHHHH!
ATRI: Argh, Natsuki-san, what do we do? Minamo’s turned back into a baby.
Natsuki: Well, of course she has. She’s sad that she has to say goodbye to you.
ATRI: …Having a heart really is a nuisance, isn’t it?
She sighs, and tears start to roll down her cheeks.
Notching them, she blinks as if trying to force them back.
She’s actually trying to control her emotions.
She’s even I learned to do that…
ATRI: There there, Minamo. Don’t cry…
Minamo: No way, I’m going to cry all night!
ATRI: Oh, Minamo, you’re so silly… I was going to ask you for one last important thing, as well.
Minamo: Oh…?
ATRI: Well, umm… Natsuki-san, could you give us a moment?
Natsuki: What?
ATRI: Just wait over there for a second.
Natsuki: Err… Okya?
I can’t help but feel a little left out, but nevertheless I leave them alone.
ATRI: Okay, so, Minamo… When I’m gone, take care of Natsuki-san for me.
Minamo: Huh? Natsu-kun?
ATRI: Natsuki-san’s a spoiled little kid, really. I’m worried what will happen if he’s left alone.
Minamo: A spoiled little kid?
ATRI: He’s always been needy, ever since he was a baby. He was all over Shiina-sama back then.
Minamo: All babies are like that, though…
ATRI: He’s the kind of person who gets so focused on his goal that he can’t think of anything else. He’ll work himself so hard that he gets to the drink of breaking down.
ATRI: He needs someone by his side to support him. He’s useless otherwise.
Minamo: That’s, umm, a little harsh…
ATRI: Will you look after him?
Minamo: …Is it really okay if it’s me?
ATRI: Yes, I’d be really reassured if you were there for him!
Minamo: …Okay, leave him to me!
Minamo wipes away her tears.
ATRI becomes me over. Looks like whatever secret business they’ve been doing is over.
Natsuki: What were you talking about?
I can’t help but be extremely curious.
ATRI: That’s confidential, girls-only.
Minamo: Y-Yep, top secret.
Minamo: Well, I’ll head home then. Goodnight, you two.
ATRI: Goodbye, Minamo.
Natsuki: Good night.
Minamo: …Bye bye!
She smiles at ATRI, and then quickly turns away, running off into the distance.
We set out on our way home. Our bodies tingles with the lingering excitement of the party, only tempered by the sadness of parting.
Natsuki: Tonight was really fun, wasn’t it?
If we return to the ship, the day will be over.
Our steps start to grow more and more languid, not wanting the night to end.
ATRI: …
ATRI stops, and pulls at my hand.
Natsuki: What’s wrong?
ATRI: There’s something I want to ask of you.
ATRI: …I want you to let me cease functioning before my time is over.
Natsuki: What…?
ATRI: When the time comes, I will forget everything. Everything about tonight, about Minamo, Ryuuji and Ririka, and everyone in the town… Everything about you.
ATRI: I don’t want that…
ATRI: So please…
ATRI: Destroy me before I forget it all.
The ship rocks atop the waves.
The wind is strong. It’s spinning the wind turbine so quickly that the radio is coming through loud and clear.
Radio: With two days left until the launch, the rocket’s engineering team is reporting that preparations are progressing according to plan…
Normally at this time of night there would be mellow classical music playing, but tonight it’s a special news bulletin.
But there’s still a niggling thought floating in the back of my mind.
“Do I really need a future?”
As a man who will lose the person he loves tomorrow, what does the future mean to me?
“Destroy me before I forget it all.”
How will I live on after tomorrow?
What worth is there in a world without her?
ATRI: Okay then…
ATRI: Time for bed.
ATRI takes off her clothes, and walks over to the bed.
Natsuki: …
After all of the night’s excitement, I’m particular nervous.
Natsuki: Yeah, it is…
ATRI: …
Natsuki: …
We can’t look each other in the eyes, but we can both feel the sense of expectation in the air.
Natsuki: (While she’s looking away, I’ll turn the pillow over to “YES”…)
Tonight, of all nights…
ATRI: Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Y-Yesh?
ATRI: …
Blushing bright red, she picks up the pillow.
Natsuki: (She’s not going to throw it outside again, is she!?)
ATRI: …
Natsuki: Hmm?
She fidgets, keeping the pillow pressed to her chest.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: Umm, what are you doing?
ATRI: Gah!
ATRI: Tsk, honestly, you’re so dense! You idiot, Natsuki-san!
She starts whacking me over the head with it.
Natsuki: Wh-What are you-Wuh!?
Natsuki: …”YES”
ATRI: Gahhh…
She stop, and clutches the pillow to herself.
She sits on the bed.
ATRI: I-I’m going to sleep. In this position, with my lap and my sides completely defenseless.
ATRI: Once I’m asleep, I’ll be absolutely oblivious to whatever you do to me, ahem…
ATRI: So, umm, sleepy time. Zzz… Zzz…
She lowers her head, and apparently falls asleep.
Natsuki: (Wow, really convincing acting. She’s holding out the “YES,” so I suppose it’s all right to hug her.)
I’d much prefer if she’d just throw her arms open and welcome me in like normal.
It’s really hard to come out and say it myself!
Natsuki: (No, dammit, Natsuki, you have to do it!)
She’s a young girl with emotions. That means she can feel embarrassed. I can’t just except her to cater to my every whim, can I?
Natsuki: (I have to take the lead!)
The bed creaks as I sit next to her.
ATRI: Eep!
ATRI twitches.
Natsuki: ATRI, are you asleep?
I lean in close and whisper in her ear.
ATRI: Zzz, zzz… Mmm, I’m so asleep right now… Zzz…
Natsuki: Wow, she can even reply in her sleep. She’s just that high performance, I suppose.
I wrap my arms around her like I did on that very first night.
ATRI: Aaahn!
ATRI: Err, ignore that… Zzz… Zzz…
Natsuki: …
ATRI: (Argh… I might have a limiter for a pain, but not embarrassment!)
Natsuki: Zzz… Zzz…
ATRI: Natsuki-san…?
Natsuki: I am incredibly asleep, zzz, so unconscious…
That was bad acting even for me.
ATRI: Natsuki-san…
ATRI’s voice is full of nervous excitement.
Natsuki: You could stroke my hair all you wanted right now, zzz…
She starts to run her delicate fingers through it.
At first her touch is hesitant, but she soon starts to get more and more confident.
ATRI: Hehe, you’re so cute, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: Zzz… Zzz…
I’m too embarrassed to da anything but keep pretending to be asleep.
ATRI: Rub rub, stroke stroke…
Ahh, it feels so nice…
When she holds me like this, it’s like all of those nights I spent tortured by my phantom pain were nothing.
I want her to stay with me forever.
But I can’t tell her that, can I? It would only hurt her.
ATRI: Natsuki-san, are you asleep?
Natsuki: Zzz… Zzz…
ATRI: …
ATRI: Please… Don’t forget me.
ATRI: I want you to remember me always…
Natsuki: Of course I won’t forget you.
ATRI: …Are you talking in your sleep?
Natsuki: Zzz… Zzz…
ATRI: Hehe, he’s even sweet when he’s asleep.
She stokes my hair again.
It feels so nice that I might really drift off after all.
But I don’t want this feeling to be cut even a second short.
Natsuki: (Even if I have to force myself… I’m staying awake…)
ATRI: Please, take me to Eden tomorrow.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: I want to see everyone smile.
ATRI: I want to make them happy. I want to know happiness myself. I want to be happy with them…
ATRI: I want to see the whole town bathed in light.
Natsuki: …Okay.
ATRI: I love you, Natsuki-san.
Soothed by the blissful feeling of her touch, I find myself slipping into a peaceful sleep…
The next morning…
ATRI: Brushy bryshy, brushy brushy…
Like we do every morning, we wake up and go through the exact same motions.
ATRI: Natshuki-shan… Aaaaahn.
She opens her mouth like a baby bird waiting to be fed.
As always, I stick her toothbrush in and brush her back teeth.
Natsuki: There you go.
ATRI: Mmnph, *spit*. Thank you.
I rinse my mouth and finish up too.
ATRI: The weather’s nice today. Perfect for drying the laundry!
Natsuki: Yeah, it’s really sunny.
I look out to the distant horizon, an enormous column of fluffy white cloud is the only blemish on an otherwise brilliantly blue sky.
ATRI: Here you go!
ATRI brings over a tray with my breakfast on it.
Natsuki: Wow, it’s a nice spread today.
ATRI: This is one of President Minamo’s big breakfast recipes. I’ve poured my all into this one!
ATRI: Go head, eat up!
Natsuki: Gladly!
ATRI: …How is it?
Natsuki: Mmm, it’s delicious.
ATRI: I know, right? Heh, I’m a high-performance breakfast machine!
ATRI: I’ve written down the recipe. I doubt you’ll be high performance enough to make it to this standard, though.
ATRI: …I know you have a habit of forgetting everything when you get absorbed in something, so make sure you eat properly, okay?
Natsuki: Don’t worry, I’ll keep that in the mind.
ATRI: Good, please do.
As always, our morning consists of a wonderful, nutritionally-balanced breakfast, the cleaning and the laundry. Afterwards, we start making the preparations to set sail for Eden.
ATRI: On yeah! Natsuki-san, do you know what this is?
ATRI opens up her old log and shows it to me.
ATRI: I found it yesterday.
On the last page, a scrawl like a spider has crawled across the paper stands out against ATRI’s neat handwriting.
ATRI: It seems to be some kind of writing, but I can’t even tell what language it is. Is it some form of ancient runes?
Natsuki: …It’s my grandmother’s handwriting.
It was always so messy that even she couldn’t read it sometimes.
The scribble is on the very last page of the log. I didn’t notice it last time I read it…
Natsuki: Hmm, what does it say?
Time for a little Grandma-to-human translation.
“It would be a violation of our own humanity and in ignorance of yours to destroy you despite your possession of a soul.””But an animal that hurts a human gets put down. Robots are the same.””The only thing I can do for you is to give you a place far away from prying eyes.”
This log was in my grandmother’s files…
Natsuki: …She read your log, and she left you a message.
My mother used to tell me about how she was always teased because my grandmother was so weird.
She laughed about it, but it must have been horrible for her at the time.
My grandmother bought ATRI so that she wouldn’t have to bother raising her daughter.
Natsuki: It seems like she suspected after the incident that you really did have emotions.
ATRI: Nonko really thought that?
Natsuki: Seems like it.
If she didn’t, I struggle to believe that my grandmother would have worried so much about defective robot being destroyed.
ATRI would have been a great boon for her, in fact.
She’d disobeyed her programming, and demonstrated emotion.
That must have been why my grandmother hid her away in her storehouse, and forbade from coming near.
ATRI: Nonko was horrible old bag and she was a terrible mother to Shiina-sama, too. But, she gave me a place to stay.
Natsuki: You’re right about her being horrible, for sure. Her sheltering you may well have been her way of making up for that.
I’m surprised that she had those kind of feelings, to be honest.
ATRI: What did she mean, “give me a place”?
Natsuki: I think she means as Eden’s control unit.
That’s where we’re heading next, on ATRI’s request.
ATRI: Ugh, I’ve got a really bad feeling about whatever Nonko planned…
Natsuki: (Just how much did she hate my grandmother!?)
I can only imagine just how angry the old bag used to chew her out for messing up her chores.
Ryuuji: Natsu!
Natsuki: Ah, there he is.
Ryuuji: Hey, Natsu!
Natsuki: Ryuuji!
Ryuuji: You heading out?
Natsuki: Yeah, wanna give us a hand?
Ryuuji: No problem, man! We’re best buds, aren’t we?
Ryuuji jumps over to the ship.
ATRI: Grr, this idiot’s coming?
Ryuuji: Hey, toaster.
ATRI: Do we really need the help of the likes of him?
Natsuki: Of course we do. Someone needs to man the ship while we’re on Eden.
Eden’s mobile, so if no one is there to move the boat along with it we won’t be able to get off the island.
ATRI: …Well, I suppose if it’s for your safety, we’ll have to let him come.
Natsuki: Okay then, let’s get going. ATRI, cast off the mooring lines.
ATRI: Roger!
She unties us from the pier, and we fire up the engines.
Our drying clothes flutter in the breeze like bunting as we forge our way across the waves.
The laundry was ATRI’s last duty as my “leg.”
She’s been having to do it by hand since we don’t have an electric washing machine. She’s gotten quite good at it after doing it every day for so long.
Every day she’s learned to do it just a little bit better.
After a little while, we arrive at the buoy we left floating out on the open sea.
Natsuki: Right, get ready to pull it up.
We raise up the rope attached to the buoy with the crane, lifting the sinker and the undersea cable out of the water.
Ryuuji: So we’re gonna connect this to Eden?
Natsuki: Yeah, exactly.
Once we’ve done that, what happens all depends on what state Eden is in. Will it actually generate any electricity, and if it does, will it be enough to power the town?
Ryuuji: And Eden is… where, exactly?
Natsuki: Any sign of it, ATRI?
ATRI: It’s still quite far away, but it’s slowly coming this way.
Natsuki: We’ll need to fix up the last section of the cable before it arrives.
The undersea cable is made up of numerous individual sections.
This means that, should there be a fault with one part, you only need to fix that specific piece.
We’ve prepared a replacement section for this last part of the job, taken from some stock we found in storage near the transformer substation.
We’ll fix everything up while we wait for Eden.
It doesn’t take long to dive down and connect up the new section.
Ryuuji: The fog’s setting in… Man, the air out here’s damp.
Natsuki: ATRI?
ATRI: It’s getting closer. The signal is coming from that direction.
We turn the ship in the direction she points.
Aa we sail on, the air grows so thick with moisture that our clothes start to get wet.
We take down the laundry to stop it getting soaked again.
Ryuuji: There it is! I can see it!
Eventually Eden draws close enough to see with the naked eye.
We drop the anchor.
Ryuuji: How are you gonna get onto that thing? There’s no way we can get close with all of those waves.
Natsuki: I’ve been looking at the plans for a way in. Come over here.
I spend a map of Eden out on the table.
Natsuki: Look at the base of the island.
Natsuki: There’s a hatch that allows you to get in and out under the water.
Ryuuji: Why would you build a hatch like that on the bottom of the island?
Natsuki: It’s probably for inspections. With an island this big, it would be difficult to get to its base if you came at it from above.
Natsuki: An easy entrance on the bottom would be useful for maintenance.
It seems to be built to take deliveries of raw materials too, so it should be wide enough for the Serpens Albus to fit inside.
Natsuki: If we go in through there, we won’t have to worry about the waves.
Ryuuji: Huh, cool…
Natsuki: Take care of the ship when I’m away, okay?
Ryuuji: …
Ryuuji stare intently at the map.
Natsuki: Ryuuji?
Ryuuji: …You are coming back, aren’t you?
For a moment, I’m silent.
Natsuki: ATRI might not…
Ryuuji: I’m asking about you, Natsu.
Natsuki: Me? I’ll come back. That’s why I asked for your help.
Ryuuji’s expression remains intense.
Ryuuji: I’ll be waiting for you, okay?
ATRI: I’ve finished changing.
Natsuki: Sorry to make you come on one last job like this.
ATRI: Fine by me!
Natsuki: Right, then we’re heading out.
Ryuuji: Gotcha.
I climb into the sub, and ATRI goes to follow me.
Ryuuji: ATRI.
ATRI: Yes?
Ryuuji: It was fun, you know. All the arguing.
ATRI: I suppose I had a little bit of fun with you too.
Ryuuji: …
ATRI: Please stay a good man, and keep being Natsuki-san’s friend.
Ryuuji: …You got it.
ATRI climbs onto the sub, and Ryuuji turns away.
I can see his shoulders shaking.
Natsuki: ATRI, when you’ve tied on your lifeline, disengage the linkage for me.
ATRI: Roger.
I shut the hatch.
Natsuki: …
I don’t think I’ll ever get used to this dark, cramped, silent space.
I wonder if, from tomorrow, I’ll even be able to bear it.
Without ATRI…
There’s a knock on the window.
It’s the signal from ATRI. She’s ready.
I rub my eyes, and start to dive.
Beneath the waves, it almost seems like the flow of time seems to float away from me.
Everything seems to move in slow motion compared to the hustle and bustle of the world above.
The deeper you get, the further away it seems.
If we could just stay here, maybe ATRI and I could be together forever.
Natsuki: (What the hell am I thinking?)
Natsuki: (This isn’t a place that humans can live. The land is all we have.)
I look up.
Through the window, backlit by the light streaming from the surface, I can see ATRI.
Light…
That’s why we’re here. For the light.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: I know, I know. We’ve got a job to do.
I shake my head and bring myself back to reality.
Attaching the power cable to Eden, despite a couple of hiccups, goes much more smoothly than expected.
We’re able to get close to Eden surprisingly easily, thanks to ATRI’s external connection to its systems.
I bring the sub up through the hatch under the island, and we make land.
The central control room has the same silent, solemn air as it did the first time.
Natsuki: I didn’t really think we’d end up back here…
It’s almost like a tomb, built by my grandmother for ATRI to die in.
Light, tottering footsteps echo off its walls.
ATRI: Sorry to keep you waiting!
ATRI comes over to me, wearing her used outfit.
She grabs onto my shirt sleeve.
Natsuki: Oh, so you changed?
ATRI: What, are you upset I’m not still in my swimsuit?
Natsuki: No, that outfit suits you the best.
ATRI: Yes, especially these shoes.
She proudly shows off her loafers.
Natsuki: They’re really beaten up, aren’t they?
ATRI: That’s just the proof that I’ve been by your side.
Proof of the forty-four days she’s lived to the very fullest.
ATRI: Okay, let’s get started.
Natsuki: Go for it.
ATRI closes her eyes, and suddenly the lights turn on.
A hologram opens up before us , a window full of all manner of readouts and camera feeds.
Natsuki: Can you check the generators?
ATRI: Please wait a second.
Another window appears before me.
I can make out the status of the power generation, and what appears to be diagram of the distribution lines.
Natsuki: …So Eden’s been generating power even while it was floating on the currents.
The whole system is still operational.
Natsuki: Wow… With this kind of capacity, we could easily power the whole town!
Currently, it’s all just being vented out through a safety mechanism.
Natsuki: Can you change the distribution?
ATRI: What would you like me to do?
Natsuki: The cable is… this one, right? Can you connect it up here, and here?
I touch the hologram.
ATRI: Okay, I’ll give it a shot.
I start seeing figures and pieces of the diagram change.
The readouts show the wasted electricity changing distribution from the safety mechanism to the undersea cable.
ATRI: Does this mean the electricity will go to the town now?
Natsuki: I should, yes.
As long as there’s nothing wrong with the cable or the transformer, all that power should end up the grid.
They did test the system when it was first built, but that was before the seas began their rapid rise. There’s no telling that everything is still in good order.
ATRI: Would you like me to turn on the navigation system?
Natsuki: You can do that?
ATRI: Yes. The island is capable of self-propulsion. It moves slowly, but fast enough to keep it from being swept away on the currents.
The window in front of me changes to a schematic of Eden’s engine system.
The island can’t be anchored like a normal ship, but instead is capable of diving itself.
Natsuki: Wow… There’s so much about this place that I still don’t know.
ATRI: There are a lot of schematics I could show you. I’ll turn off the security systems.
Natsuki: Thanks.
ATRI: This means my last job is complete, doesn’t it?
Natsuki: Assuming there’s not been any trouble with the power lines.
Natsuki: Let’s go and check.
Outside, the island is bathed in the warm glow of the setting sun.
Natsuki: This place is beautiful…
ATRI: It really is. That’s the power of technology.
The verdant greenery, the gently-flowing rivers, and all of the animals and insects living among them… They’re all just a simulation of nature.
Somehow, that makes them all the more beautiful.
This whole island was birthed by the knowledge and desires of a human race living in chaos, yet is kept in perfect harmony by our science.
Natsuki: That might be so… ATRI, give me your hand.
I walk with her over to the island’s edge.
Natsuki: It must be around here… Ah, there it is.
ATRI: Oh? What’s that?
Natsuki: I guess you don’t remember this. It’s your old logbook.
ATRI: …
ATRI dropped her log the last time we were here.
It seems like my theory that it feel out when she used her dress as a flag was right.
I hand it to her, and she opens it up.
Inside is a record of everything that’s happened since the day that I savaged her.
ATRI: Ohh… So that happened…
ATRI: Heh, I really to show off just how high performance I am, didn’t I?
ATRI: O-Oh my, you really are a pervert, Natsuki-san…
She giggles and blushes as she reads through the log.
ATRI: Hehe, oh…
She smiles, and a tear rolls down her cheek.
Natsuki: ATRI…?
ATRI: You made me so happy, Natsuki-san…
She clutches the notebook to her chest for a moment, before holding it out to me.
ATRI: Will you take care of this for me?
Natsuki: Why? That’s your past, isn’t it?
ATRI: Indeed, it’s nothing but precious memories in there.
ATRI: But I can’t remember them anymore. No matter how much I read that log, they won’t come back to me.
ATRI: If you were to forget me too, then you wouldn’t have to feel sad…
My chest tightens as I gaze at hermelancholy expression, her ruby-red eyes glowing in the evening sun.
I grab hold of her hand tightly.
Natsuki: I won’t forget you. Not until the day I die.
ATRI: Thank you! ♪
As the sun dips below the horizon the sky is overtaken by an inky blackness, speckled with a million little dots of light.
I gaze up into the night, if only to hide the tears welling in my eyes.
I don’t want to the last thing ATRI remembers to be crying.
An told line from a book I once read at The Academy pops into my head.
“Time is a cruel thief to rob us of our former selves.”
I wish that time would take the sad moments like this away too…
ATRI: Natsuki-san…
Natsuki: Yeah?
ATRI: Are there stars on the land too?
Natsuki: What…?
ATRI: Loo, over there.
Natsuki: Oh…
On the horizon, hundreds of little lights glimmer like a newborn galaxy.
They spread out along the coast, twinkling in the darkness.
Natsuki: The town is lit up…
ATRI: Is that really our town?
Natsuki: It sure is.
ATRI: …It’s so beautiful.
Natsuki: You’re the one that brought them that light, you know.
ATRI: …I’m so glad to have a heart, to be able to look at something so beautiful and know what that beautiful means.
Natsuki: I’m sure everyone in town is smiling right now.
The place is probably turning into a massive party.
Natsuki: I might even be able to have a nice, cold cola tomorrow.
ATRI: Natsuki-san…
I glance over at her, and see the tears welling in her eyes again.
She gazes off into the distance as if looking past all our Earthly trappings and into the eyes of the stars themselves.
ATRI: So people cry when they’re happy too…
ATRI: That was written in the log, wasn’t it? When we lit up the classroom, Minamo cried with joy.
ATRI: These tears are the proof that I’m feeling happiness.
She lets them roll down her cheeks, free and unbidden.
The glimmer in the starlight for just a beautiful instant before falling away.
Natsuki: ATRI…
There’s still one more thing I have to say to her, and this is the moment.
Natsuki: I’m going to save the world.
ATRI: …Yes, you are.
She nods, her voice almost a whisper.
ATRI: I’m worried for you, Natsuki-san… Will you be able to walk without me?
Natsuki: I’m not sure…
She clenches my hand tightly.
Natsuki: But I know now, I have the courage to move forward, no matter how hard it is.
ATRI: Will things be hard for you?
Natsuki: Not as hard as they were for you, when you were all alone.
I place my hand on hers.
Natsuki: One day, I’ll come back to see you. One day, when I’ve saved the world.
ATRI: …Does the world include me?
Natsuki: Yea, ATRI. You’re the very center of my world.
ATRI: …That’s a very abstract definition of “world.” I understand it, though.
ATRI: I’ve learned how to understand now.
Natsuki: Of course you have. You’re just that high performance, after all.
ATRI: Heh, and don’t you forget it! ♪
Her playful smile soon fades into a somber frown.
The lights of the town simmer in her teary eyes.
ATRI: We’re still a day early…
It’s been forty-four days since I pulled her up from the bottom of the sea.
Forty-four days of memories that sparkle like the stars.
Natsuki: We’ll have that day in the future.
She nods, and looks up at me with a beaming smile.
ATRI: Goodbye.
Time is a cruel thief.
But it cannot steal this moment.
ATRI has fallen asleep.
She rests now in the capsule my grandmother made for her.
As long as it remains powered, it will keep her in stasis, exactly the same as she was on that last day.
But she will never wake up. If she ever leaves the capsule, death would quickly follow.
In exchange for giving up her autonomy and becoming one with Eden’s central control system, she was able to fall asleep with her memories of the world intact.
Like milk poured into coffee, her mind has melded into the system.
The mind of the first robot in the world able to feel emotions, ATRI.
Now one with the island built to be the cradle of a new civilization, Eden.
Time waits for on one.
Tomorrow comes as surely as today came after yesterday, and so will the next day.
Natsuki: …
I sit alone in the empty classroom, reading through a notebook.
Natsuki: Haha, that did happen, didn’t it?
It’s ATRI’s log.
Inside is a record of every single thing that she experienced, noted in minute detail.
Most of it is simply the trivialities of everyday life.
The day when we finished the generator is particularly detailed, giving an in-depth analysis of the functioning of the-
Wait, no, It’s just a long description of what crab tastes like.
Everything from the most important events of our days together to the tiniest frivolity is written here.
(When I told Natsuki-san her couldn’t read my logs, he started sulking.)
Natsuki: Oh, that was that time…
I remember her refusing to show me once.
She was trying to hide the fact that she didn’t have a heart from me.
She lied to me. Looking back, that should have been a clue that she did have emotions after all.
Catherine: What are you sitting around here looking all wistful for? It’s creepy.
Natsuki: Why are you here? It’s summer vacation.
Catherine: I live here, remember? If you really want to be alone, why not go back to that ship of yours?
Natsuki: Because ATRI loved this place most of all.
She always looked so happy on the way here.
She loved studying more than anything.
Even after Catherine ordered her not to come here, she tried to.
Natsuki: I suppose I should thank you. You let her be a student here.
Catherine: …Is that sarcasm, or something?
Natsuki: No, I mean it.
Natsuki: In fact, you were the reason I met ATRI in the first place. Thank you.
Catherine: Ugh, please, you being all grateful and stuff makes me think I’m going to look out the window and see pigs flying. And we can’t have that, on today of all days.
It’s that rare? That can’t be right…
Natsuki: (Just what do people around here think of mel!?)
Catherine: I’m just joking, don’t give me that face. Hope you’ve got that lecture prepped for later.
Natsuki: Don’t worry, I’m on it.
The rocket being launched tonight.
We’ll all be gathering on the roof of the school to watch it.
Catherine: Right, see you then.
She goes on her way with a nonchalant wave.
Natsuki: What did she even come here for?
Was she… worried about me?
Natsuki: Pssh, fat chance of that.
I return to the log, and find myself on a familiar page.
(On the way to school, he told me that he “loved” me. I replied that I “loved” him too.)
Natsuki: …
This was the page where I first discovered that ATRI’s emotions were fake.
The memory needles at my heart.
Even she wasn’t aware of her true feelings then.
She only thought of her reply to my confession as something to make me happy.
Natsuki: …?
Natsuki: Oh, this is…
The word “loved” is smudged.
I saw the same marks in several places in her old logs too.
They’re her tears.
Was she sad that I confessed to her?
No, that can’t be right…
“So people cry when they’re happy too…”
Another tear lands in the same place on the paper.
Natsuki: So she was happy then…
I succeeded in bringing her just a little happiness.
Just thinking that brings tears to my eyes.
Minamo: Oh, you’re here, Natsu-kun?
Minamo: Why, though? Oh, umm, you’re crying!?
Natsuki: Ah, this is, umm…
I hurriedly wipe away the tears, but there’s no disguising it.
Natsuki: I should be the one asking why you’re here. There’s no club activities going on today, are there?
Minamo: Well… I just felt like coming here.
Natsuki: Wouldn’t you be coming here tonight anyway.
Minamo: Yeah, but it’s a little different from coming in the daytime.
Minamo: Sorry if I interrupted anything. Maybe I should go…
Natsuki: No, it’s fine, really.
I sniffle and clear my throat, trying to compose myself.
I shouldn’t be wallowing in the past like this.
ATRI wanted me to look to the future.
Natsuki: (I just can’t do it, ATRI… I’m not strong enough.)
I put the notebook back into my bag. I go to stand up, pushing my stick into the ground, but it slips out from under me.
I wobble, but a hand reaches out to keep me steady-Minamo’s hand.
Minamo: Are you okay?
Natsuki: Yeah, sorry about that…
I lean on her, and she looks at me with slight bemusement.
Minamo: You really have change, haven’t you?
Natsuki: What? How?
Minamo: I don’t think you would have let someone help you like this before…
Natsuki: …
When I was at The Academy, I thought I could do everything by myself.
I thought I had to save the world on my own.
Natsuki: …There are times when you need help to do things you can’t do by yourself.
Natsuki: That’s something I’ve learned here.
Minamo gives me a serious look.
Minamo: I’ll be here to support you. I know I might not be as good as ATRI-chan…
Minamo: But she asked me to, and, umm… Well… I want to.
Natsuki: Thanks… I’ll be counting on you.
Minamo: …Okay!
She nods happily.
I’m suddenly extremely conscious that the person propping me up is a girl, and I find my face flushing red.
Minamo: I’m really looking forward to the launch tonight.
Natsuki: I wouldn’t get your hopes up too much. It probably won’t be as spectacular as you’re imagining.
Minamo: Nah, it’ll be great, I’m sure. It’s going all the way to space!
I hope she’s not imagining it will be like a really big firework.
The sun soon sets…
And the students all gather together at the school.
Ryuuji: It feels like we’ve been getting together at night a lot lately.
Ryuuji smiles as he looks over the assembled children.
Ririka: Those fireworks were so much fun!
Ryuuji: We’re gonna see an even bigger one tonight!
Dammit, not him too!
If the rocket really did explored like a firework, that would be nothing but bad news. I don’t even want to imagine that.
Catherine: Okay, okay, calm down. We’re technically in class right now.
Radio: In a change from our usual scheduled programming, tonight we’re broadcasting live from the space rocket lauch.
The announcer’s voice comes through the radio.
Radio: The moment is almost here. Humanity’s first space launch in decades will send the rocket on a journey to the unused lunar base, which will be developed as a staging point for future space exploration.
Radio: It will carry the hopes and dreams of everyone on this planet into the great expance of space.
The launch is being broadcast not only over the radio, but on television too. Programmes about space have been the only thing on all day.
Any household lucky enough to have a TV set is probably packed with people right now.
Ririka: Where’s the rocket going to launch from!?
Natsuki: A floating platform in the Pacific.
All of the old launch site from the past were unusable.
They were all built on low-lying areas, so they were swallowed up by the seas.
The floating island was constructed in what used to be Tokyo Bay, and they towed out to the south.
Launching over the sea is far safer than over land, as any debris, such as the first stage of a multi-stage rocket, can just sink into the ocean.
Ririka: Is that the same direction as Eden?
Natsuki: Yeah, that’s right.
Everyone knows about Eden now.
And they know who is sleeping there.
There’s still a little time left until the launch. I intend to spend it talking in the beautiful view.
Natsuki: We can sleep the lights of the whole from here.
Minamo: It’s amazing to see the place so bright at night. It’s just like it used to be.
Ryuuji: The “young professor” has become the “savior” to everyone now. Here, one soda, ice cold.
He hands me a can coated in a layer of condensation.
Natsuki: They’re really calling me that?
I think that’s going a little far…
I pull the tab and take a swig. There’s something so nostalgic about the sensation of bubbles fizzing in my mouth.
Natsuki: Hahhh, I’ve missed this…
Radio: We’re now passing you live to the launch site, where the countdown has begun!
Minamo: Huh, it’s time already!?
Natsuki: Don’t worry, it’ll still be a few minutes.
Announcer: Today’s launch is scheduled for 2200 hours, six minutes and twenty-five seconds, Japanese Standard Time. The automated countdown time has begun.
Announcer: 298… 297… 296…
The minutes slowly pass.
Holding onto the roof’s railings with a tense grip, I gaze out over the pacific.
The stars twinkle in the almost cloudless sky.
Ryuuji: …
Ririka: …
Minamo: …
What were previously giddily chatting children have become silent statues.
On their faces are etched expressions of expectation and unease.
We all know what this rocket means. It’s our future.
Cahterine: …It’s going to go fine, isn’t it?
Catherine alone is pacing back and forth nercously.
Natsuki: We’ll see.
As the only adult here, she’s trying her best to be strong.
Announcer: All systems switching to internal power.
The rocket’s boosters are preparing to fire.
Even the businesslike tone of the announcer has a hint of agitation in it.
Announcer: T-minus sixty second.
Natsuki: …
Unlike everyone else, it is not the future I see in that rocket. It’s my past.
If that rocket makes it to space, maybe it was all worth it after all.
I… Then me from back then might be saved. My father will have saved us all, including me, at the cost of our family.
Announcer: All systems ready.. Main engines firing.
Announcer: We have ignition… Life off!
Everyone holds their breath.
We hear the roar of the rocket’s engines through the crackle of the raido.
Announcer: We have lift off, I repeat, the H-3 Mark 4 rocket has lifted off from the Tokyo Bay Space Center at 2200 hours, six minutes and twenty-five seconds on the thirty-first of August.
Ririka: Does that mean it worked?
Everyone silently watches the horizon.
Natsuki: We should be able to see it soon.
I point off into the distance.
A little red light appears at the tip of my finger…
It draws a shining line between the clouds, up into the inky black of space.
It leaves a trail of billowing white smoke, the manifestation of the immense amount of energy it’s expending to fight Earth’s gravity.
A trace on the horizon, pointing the way to our future.
The proof that our civilization is not content to merely wait on this dying planet, resigned to our end.
The simple desire to live, to have a future.
That vivid red line looks as beautiful to me.
Natsuki: …I’m going back to The Academy.
Everyone turns to me.
Natsuki: The sea rises will stop eventually. There’s only so much water on earth.
Natsuki: It won’t be enough to cover the land completely. Space isn’t our last hope.
That’s why my grandmother pushed forward with her plants for floating cities.
As I am now, I wouldn’t be able to continue her work. I need to learn and grow to truly understand Eden.
Ryuuji: …I see. I thought you were gonna say that.
Minamo: It’s going to be lonely without you…
Ririka: You’re really leaving?
Catherine: Of course he is. This brat’s wasted out here in the sticks.
Natsuki: I’ll be waiting for you there.
I pat Ririka’s head.
Ririka: I’ll keep studying and catch up to you in no time!
I turn to Ryuuji, Minamo, and all of the assemble students.
Natsuki: This place… This place has taught me so much, Even if I leave, it will always be my home.
I’m setting out on a journey into a new future… One without ATRI.
A journey that I hope will one day lead me back home.
I’ll fulfill my promise, and one day, finally, I will save her.
Bad End
Minamo slams into Yasuda’s side, and the stungun’s blast fires off into nothing.
Yasuda: Gah! You little bitch, don’t get in my way!
Minamo: Arrghh!
ATRI: Ah!
Yasuda’s metal arm slams into the side of Minamo’s head with a sickening crunch.
She collapses on the concrete, completely unmoving.
In that instant, ATRI feels something well up inside her, like raging flames turning her entire world red.
It burns inside her, a sensation she’s never felt before…
Minamo’s Voice: Nooooooooooo!
Natsuki: What!?
As I try to hobble my way to the roof, I hear a high-pitched, strained scream. It’s unmistakably Minamo.
Natsuki: No! Dammit, I have to get there!
I try to run, but I can’t with just my leg and my stick.
All I can do is hobble forward hardly faster than a normal walking pace.
If only I had a prosthetic, even some piece of junk…
Natsuki: (ATRI… ATRI!)
Screaming her name in my heart and praying for her safety, I fight my way up the stairs.
Natsuki: ATRI!
Heaving open the heavy steel door to the roof, my eyes are met with a truly horrendous sight.
ATRI: …
ATRI is standing there, expression completely blank.
Her clothes, and her fists, are soaked crimson red.
Sickly red liquid drips from her fingertips.
A man lies crumpled at her feet.
It seems like it might be the man I saw before, but his face is so distorted and blooded that I cannot be sure.
Minamo is lying completely still beside them.
Natsuki: ATRI…?
ATRI: Do not worry. Minamo is merely unconscious.
Her voice is cold, without a hint of emotion.
A chilling breeze whips around us, rustling her blood-stained skirt.
ATRI: I remember it now. Everything…
ATRI: I am a monster. Look…
She holds up her hands, fresh ichor glistening down her arms.
Natsuki: No, that’s not right. You’re…
ATRI: I will put an end to this myself.
She walks calmly to the edge of the roof.
Without a word, she climbs over the railing.
Natsuki: ATRI, no, what are you doing!?
ATR: I should have done this before.
Natsuki: No, stop-
ATRI: Goodbye.
Natsuki: ATRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!!!
Time slows, and ATRI seems to float in the air. It’s like the sky itself is pulling her away from me. As she disappears, I see glimmer in those ruby-red eyes…
ATRI: Master, I have finished the laundry.
A torn-up scrap of fabric is hanging up to dry.
Until an hour ago, that was some kind of clothing.
ATRI: …
ATRI stares up at me, waiting for my appraisal.
She doesn’t even realize that she’s ruined it.
Natsuki: Great, thanks.
She nods stiffly.
When ATRI jumped from the roof, her motors and joints were heavily damaged.
They’re beyond the point of repair.
She suffered a lot of other injures, but nothing fatal. It’s lucky she fell into the water.
But her body is not what has taken the worst damage.
ATRI: I will prepare breakfast.
Natsuki: Okay…
She unsteadily totters back into the cabin, bare feet struggling to keep her balanced on the swaying deck.
She has forgotten everything.
Everything from before the day I salvaged her, and everything she experienced afterward.
I’m not quite sure if it’s a result of the damage she’s taken, or if she chose to erase her own memory.
Even showing her her logs does nothing. Her memories are gone, as are those emotions she used to show me every day.
To her, it’s as if we’ve never met before.
When I step back into the cabin, I’m greeted by the stench of charred carbon.
Natsuki: ATRI, is something burning?
ATRI: Hmm…?
She looks at me with confusion etched on her face.
Natsuki: …Forget I said that.
ATRI: Okay.
Waiting for my food, I stare at the calendar.
Not a single box has been crossed off since that day.
That doesn’t mean that her final days are not approaching, however.
ATRI: Breakfast is ready. Please sit down.
I sit on the sofa, waiting for her to bring over my tray.
Natsuki: …Huh?
There’s something underneath my foot.
I look down. There’s a shoe.
A single, beaten-up old loafer.
I remember instantly where the other is. She was wearing it when she plunged into the sea.
Natsuki: …
ATRI: Oh…
When ATRI sees the shoe, she stops in her tracks.
Natsuki: Do you remember this? This is your…
ATRI: Is that garbage? It is trash collection day, so I will throw it away.
She swiftly takes the shoe from my hand, and disposes of it.
She turns back to me as if nothing has happened.
ATRI: Please enjoy breakfast.
Natsuki: …Thanks.
I force the blackened, obliterated matter down my throat with a heavy gulp of water. While I struggle, ATRI goes to throw out the trash.
The ashen taste coats the inside of my mouth.
If I’d just been faster.
If I could have ran…
I chew. And I gulp. And I chew. And I gulp. And I chew and gulp and chew and gulp…
Natsuki: Huh…?
After some moments, I hear ATRI walking back to the ship. There’s something different about her footsteps.
Or, half of them, at least.
Natsuki: ATRI… Is that, umm…?
She’s wearing a shoe on one foot.
ATRI: This shoe appears to still be functional. I adjust it to be of adequate use for protecting my foot.
ATRI: Would this be acceptable to you?
Natsuki: Yeah…
ATRI gazes down at her feet with her dull, blood-red eyes.
ATRI: It is the perfect size…
Natsuki: It really suits you.
ATRI: …Understand.
She nods impassively, and starts to turn away to return to her duties.
Suddenly, she stops.
Natsuki: Hmm? What’s up?
ATRI: Am I helpful?
Natsuki: Of course you are. You’re a lifesaver.
ATRI: I see. Excellent.
Two days later, ATRI ceased to function.
She died remembering nothing.
True End
It has been sixty years since humanity took its first steps back toward the stars.
The sea rises threw our way of life into flux. Yet even as civilization has been faced with greater and greater challenges, we have pushed on without our spirit ever breaking.
Maybe it was that shing line in the sky that showed us the way through an uncertain future.
As long as there is a light to walk toward, people can follow it.
It was thirty years ago now that the first new floating city, Noah, was completed.
Noahs 2 and 3 followed on shortly afterward, and now approximately a quarter of humanity lives on self-sustaining artificial islands.
I, Kamishiro Natsuki, am one of them.
My research has delved into various fields throughout my life in academia.
One of those fields, research into floating cities, was the continuation of my grandmother’s work.
Another, the further development of A.I.
Kokoro: Master, should I change your diaper?
Natsuki: There’s no need for that… She’ll do that for me…
Lying on what I know is destined to be my deathbed, I can hardly speak in more than a whisper.
Natsuki’s Wife: Honestly, dear, I’m not doing that. That’s what we bought the robot to do.
“The Lost Decades”-that’s how historians refer to the twenty years across which the sea levels rose dramatically.
Most of earth’s land mass was swallowed by the ocean, and much of our technology and prosperity vanished into the deep.
Then followed another decade of despair as humanity simply clung on to existence.
The Academy was established amid the chaos with a noble objective in mind:
“To keep open the paths to humanity’s future.”
It’s academics would strive to relearn our lost knowledge, further developing it to be put to practical use.
I gave myself the objective of rebuilding the science of robotics, and finding applications for it in humanity’s future.
It was my research, in fact, that lead to the singularity.
Our civilization was totally turned on its head by the technological revolution that began when humanoids reached the point where they were not simply workers in our society, but our friends too.
There are still philosophical debates as to whether robots truly possess souls, but regardless, the near-miraculous speed at which their capabilities increased played a crucial role in saving humanity.
I don’t doubt that I will be remembered in history as one of the fathers of the A.I. age.
It is what the world will read in my obituary tomorrow.
Natsuki: …
Kokoro: Master, what is that song?
I start to hum of familiar tune in my weak, exhausted voice. My maid, Kokoro, looks at me with soft bemusement.
Natsuki’s Wife: It’s a song an old friend of ours used to sing. Ahh, you haven’t sung that in years…
Natsuki: I remember we used to have this second-hand piano someone had donated to our dilapidated old school.
Natsuki’s Wife: My darling would play, and our friend would sing…
Kokoro: That sounds very sweet, but I must say you’re not the best of singers.
Natsuki: Well, sorry that this dying man’s not quite Pavarotti, toaster…
Kokoro: That is anti-robot discrimination. Please rescind those words.
Natsuki: Shut up…
Natsuki’s Wife: Hehe, this sure takes me back…
That school where I spent such a brief but precious time, and the whole town surrounding it, are now at the bottom of the sea.
Catherine continued teaching there until the very last.
Thanks to her efforts, that tiny school was able to produce three Academy students.
The first of them was Nanami Ririka, the nuclear scientist responsible for perfecting the world’s first small-scale fusion reactor.
My old friend Nojima Ryuuji took advantage of his popularity and leadership to become the first mayor of Noah, and supported Ririka’s research financially.
A petal comes floating in through the open window.
There are many out there who decry humanity’s current circumstance as ‘unnatural.’
This petal too is from a tree that has been genetically modified to be perfectly suited to our current climate.
I can understand those who think it’s somehow horrific for humanity to have such control over nature.
But what other choice do we have? The only other option was to accept our end.
If those people want to give up, then they can die alone.
Our civilization has taken its first steps into space. Manned missions to Mars are soon to begin, launched from the staging post to the moon.
It may be decades, or even longer, before we are able to turn Mars into a new home for humanity, but one day I am sure we will be able to control other planets the way we do our own.
Of course, you can still debate the morality of that.
But we won’t give up on our future.
Natsuki: Dear… Turn the TV on…
Natsuki’ Wife: TV on.
At her command, a hologram window opens up before me.
My voice is too weak to even be picked up by the A.I. now.
Natsuki: I invented the damn thing, and it won’t even listen to me…
Natsuki’s Wife: You never know what kind of problems old age is going to bring until you actually get old, right?
News Reporter: The final preparations have been made for the decommissioning of the floating island, Eden.
News Reporter: The pioneering engineering project that set the stage for the development of all of our current seasteading projects stopped being used as a research station several years ago.
New Reporter: With concerns about its structural integrity preventing its reuse as a residential facility, the island will be scuttled to be used as a wreck diving site tomorrow.
Natsuki: …
Natsuki’s Wife: Ah, that takes me back…
She sighs deeply.
Natsuki’s Wife: I wonder if she’s still there…
Natsuki: …
My wife looks at me with a gentle smile as I stare at the picture on the television.
Natsuki: Minamo… Thank you for being by my side, all these years.
Natsuki’s Wife: …
She blushes a little. We’re so used to calling each other by little pet names that it feels like it’s been decades since I used that name.
She pouts and frowns at me.
Natsuki’s Wife: It’s not fair, springing that on me all of a sudden…
Natsuki: Well… This is the end, after all…
Natsuki: Don’t worry. Do what you have to do. I know that you’ve never forgotten her.
Natsuki’s Wife: It’ll make me happy, too. You weren’t the only person who loved her.
Natsuki: Thank you…
Natsuki: So you’re really going to meet her…
Natsuki: Yes… I promised her… one last day…
My health has been deteriorating for several years now. The doctors said I could die at any time.
I could have had all manner of cyborg implants to prolong my life, but I have lived long enough already.
I have only kept going as long as I have so that I could see this moment.
Natsuki: Kokoro… Connect me to the network…
Kokoro: Yes, master.
I feel information rush into my brain.
It’s been partially cyborgized, allowing me to connect my consciousness to the internet.
The technology is still experimental. It may be some years before it becomes widespread in society.
Kokoro: Diving in ten, nine, eight, seven…
Natsuki: I’ll be back…
Natsuki’s Wife: See you later, Natsu-kun. Say hello to ATRI-chan for me.
A petal flutters in through the open window-
My consciousness floats out of my body, and sinks deep into the inky black of the electronic ocean…
…
Soon, I am within Eden.
The place where our future began.
It has now served its purpose. It cannot escape the ravages of age.
It’s hydroelectric power system just can’t compete with nuclear fusion in terms of efficiency.
Its computer systems are outdated technology, too expensive to keep updating.
Its life coming to an end, it will sink to the bottom of the sea.
The public doesn’t know that this place can be said to be where the singularity all started.
No one knows that the very first robot with a soul sleeps here.
Natsuki: (ATRI…)
I call her name, and feel a ripple in the electronic ocean.
The waves stir softly around me.
ATRI has become one with these waters.
It is impossible to say where her consciousness begins and Eden’s systems end.
She has melted into it like sugar into tea.
These waters as a whole are both ATRI, and not ATRI.
Natsuki: (ATRI…!)
I shout for her, and waves call back.
I sink into the deepest depths of the sea of information.
I have to save her from drowning in these waters.
I will salvage every scrap of ATRI’s being.
Every single one.
Even if I find them all, I know that it won’t bring her back.
It’s nothing but fragments of her mind.
At the  bottom of the digital sea is a town.
Natsuki: (I can’t tell if these are my memories, or ATRI’s…)
They are probably mine.
I am forming my own image of the electronic ocean to make it easier for my mind to process.
I have to walk on.
I suddenly find myself in the cockpit of the Serpens Albus.
Natsuki: (There’s the storehouse… ATRI must be in there.)
I pilot the sub inside.
I wave the light across the room, searching for her.
Natsuki: (ATRI… Where are you? ATRI…)
She may be one with these waters now, but if she really does possess a consciousness, that alone should still remain somewhere.
A consciousness cannot simply disappear. It is the ultimate proof that an individual exists.
I’m sure that she’s here somewhere, sleeping in this sea of information.
Natsuki: (ATRI… You’re here, aren’t you?)
There in the dark, I finally see a glimmer of light.
Natsuki: (You’re here…)
There, in that coffinlike capsule.
There, she sleeps.
Natsuki: (I knew you had a consciousness… A soul…)
So this is what it feels like to be inside the singularity itself…
Natsuki: (ATRI… Wake up, ATRI…!)
…
She does not respond.
I thought that if I at least found her consciousness, that could be the key to waking her up.
But it seems like that won’t be enough. There’s one thing missing.
One thing I have.
Natsuki: Remember, ATRI… All those dear moments…
I hold our to her three notebooks, notebooks that I have kept safe all these years… Those three logs that record every moment from her birth to her final sleep.
…
Her eyes open.
She stares at me with those ruby-red pools of light.
ATRI: …
Natsuki: (You’re alive…)
She’s really still here.
She gazes at me quizzically, and tilts her head to the side. It’s just like she always used to do.
ATRI: Who are you…?
Natsuki: (Have you forgotten me?)
A Humanoid always remembers its master…
ATRI: …Natsuki-san.
She reaches out, and opens the capsule.
The soft sound of ocean waves fills my ears.
Before me stretches out that familiar landscape.
Natsuki: This place…
ATRI: It would be a little hard to talk underwater, wouldn’t it?
Natsuki: Oh…
Natsuki: We’re back in that time…
ATRI: Would you have preferred to stay an old man?
Natsuki: No, I like this. It wouldn’t be fair if you were the only one who looked the same as in the past.
ATRI: Don’t blame me for that. I was made to look like this.
She looks up at me with a playful smile, that little tuft of hair on her head bouncing up and down.
ATRI: Welcome back, Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: It’s good to be home.
Finally, I get to hear those words.
The words I’ve been waiting decades for.
ATRI: Did you manage to save the world?
Natsuki: You already know the answer to that. You’ve been watching me, haven’t you?
ATRI: Yes, I’ve been watching from Eden. Watching the world, and you Natsuki-san.
Natsuki: I’ve planted the seeds. It’s up to the next generation to grow them.
Natsuki: My work is done. I’m tired, and I need to rest.
ATRI: Just like me, in fact.
Tomorrow, she’ll be sunk to the bottom of the sea.
Natsuki: I promised that I’d spend one last day with you, didn’t I?
ATRI: That you did. ♪
Natsuki: With our minds connected directly to the internet like this, our perception of the flow to time might be a little different to how it would be in the normal world though.
ATRI: Oh, how much? Enough to make one day last, say, sixty years?
Natsuki: Heh, it’s going to be along day.
Thankfully, we’ve got plenty of lost time to make up for.
ATRI: Hey! What’s with that leg!? Are you cheating on me!?
Natsuki: C-Calm down…
ATRI glares at my prosthetic leg.
It’s the same kind that I’ve been using all my life until today.
I’ve always preferred an older, non-cybernetic type.
My unconscious must have recreated in this realm.
ATRI: Tsk, you’ve had sixty years to upgrade, and you’ re still using a piece of junk like thar?
Natsuki: Well, I couldn’t find a leg that matched up to you.
ATRI: Heh, of course you couldn’t! I’m just that high performance!
She puffs up her chest proudly.
I probably shouldn’t tell her that there’s a lot of things in the world a little more “high performance” than her now, particularly when it comes to cybernetics.
Yet I always wanted to keep using an older, less technologically-advanced leg. It reminds me of my own flaws.
The flaws that I’m always depending on other people to help me with.
Natsuki: I was always so proud and stubborn… But it’s only by knowing your own weaknesses that you can work with others.
There’s another reason I kept using an old leg, too-so that I’d always want to go back to find ATRI again.
Natsuki: You haven’t been bored down here, have you?
ATRI: No, I’ve been sleeping the whole time.
ATRI: I did have a nice dream, though. I dreamt that you married Minamo.
ATRI: You were surrounded by children and grandchildren. You looked so happy.
ATRI: …I was a little jealous.
Natsuki: She left me go to spend my final day with you, though. She says hello.
No one will know what happens here today.
We are all alone on Eden. No one is permitted on a condemned island like this.
I’ve planned for this for so many years. Minamo was the only person I could ever tell about it.
ATRI: Won’t you be in trouble if people find out you’ve done this?
Natsuki: Don’t worry. All of the physical evidence will be sealed away.
ATRI: I’ll make sure there’s no digital evidence on Eden’s network, either.
Natsuki: Thanks.
Natsuki: I’ve spent my whole life working toward this. I want to spend my last day relaxing.
ATRI: That sound lovely. I’ll accompany you.
She holds out her hand.
I entwine my fingers with hers.
“Time is a cruel thief to rob us of our former selves. We lose as much to life as we do to death.”
So much time has passed since that last moment we spent together. It has given me so many wonderful things, and taken just as much.
But maybe, after all we’ve been through, it will let us have one day to ourselves.
ATRI: What are we going to do first, Natsuki-san?
Natsuki: I think… I’d like to sleep with you in my arms.
ATRI: Hehe, you haven’t changed. You’re still the same spoiled little kid.
Our long summer is finally ending.
We have one last day.
One last day for the robot who had a heart, and the boy who loved her.